A
Aberto
Aberto

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: Ah-bare-toh
    Description: A spell used to open doors.[1]
    Etymology: Portuguese for 'open'. Compare Spanish 'abierto'.

Accio (Summoning Charm)
Accio cup
Type: Charm
Pronunciation: Various, including: AK-ee-oh or AK-see-oh , AK-see-oh , AS-see-oh (US), and AT-chee-oh (Anglo-Catholic pronunciation)
Description: Summons an object towards the caster. It is able to summon objects in direct line of sight of the caster, as well as things out of view, by calling the object aloud after the incantation (unless the spell is casted nonverbally). This spell needs thought behind it, and the object must be clear in the casters mind before trying to summon it.[2] The caster doesn't necessarily need to know the location of the target if they say the name of the object to be summoned, such as when Hermione Granger summoned some books from Dumbledore's office simply by saying "Accio Horcrux books!" while in Gryffindor Tower.
Seen/Mentioned: Harry Potter summoned his broom to complete the first task of the Triwizard Tournament in 1994, and to summon the Portkey to escape Voldemort and the Death Eaters in the Little Hangleton graveyard in 1995. Also, in the Battle of the Seven Potters Harry summoned Hagrid when he fell. Molly Weasley used it to get the twins' candy. The twins used it to summon their brooms from Dolores Umbridge's office
Etymology: The Latin word accio means "I call" or "I summon".
Notes: The Summoning Charm is unable to directly summon exceptionally large targets such as buildings, or living creatures (except for Flobberworms which aren't considered to be worth summoning). It is, however, possible to move a creature by summoning things they are wearing or holding. It is also possible to bewitch items to become unaffected from this charm, as is the case with most bought goods.
(Age Line)
Age Line surrounding the Goblet of Fire PM

    Type: Charm
    Description: Prevents people above or below a certain age from access to a target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Albus Dumbledore to stop underage students from entering their names into the Goblet of Fire. When Fred and George Weasley attempted to circumvent it with Ageing Potions, and ended up in the Hospital Wing with fine white beards, along with other students who tried similar tactics.[3]

Aguamenti (Water-Making Spell)
Aguamenti PM
Type: Charm, Conjuration
Pronunciation: AH-gwah-MEN-tee
Description: Produces a clean, drinkable jet of water from the wand tip.
Seen/Mentioned: Used by Fleur Delacour in 1994 to extinguish her skirt, which had caught flame during a fight against a dragon.[2] Harry used this spell twice in 1997, both on the same night; once to attempt to provide a drink for Dumbledore,[4] then again to help douse Hagrid's hut after it was set aflame by Thorfinn Rowle, who used the Fire-Making Spell.[5]
Etymology: Possibly a hybrid of Latin words aqua, which means "water", and menti, which means "for the mind".
Alarte Ascendare
Alarte Ascendare
Type: Charm
Pronunciation: a-LAR-tay a-SEN-der-ay
Description: Shoots the target high into the air.
Seen/Mentioned: Used by Gilderoy Lockhart in 1992 to send a snake high into the air during the first and last meeting of the Duelling Club.
Etymology: Ascendere is a Latin infinitive meaning "to go up,""to climb," "to embark," "to rise(figuratively);" this is the origin of the English word "ascend".
(Albus Dumbledore's forceful spell)

    Type: Spell
    Description: This spell was, supposedly, quite powerful as when it was cast, the opponent was forced to conjure a silver shield to deflect it.[6]
    Seen/Mentioned: It was used by Dumbledore in the Ministry of Magic, immediately following the Battle of the Department of Mysteries on 17 June, 1996, while he duelled Voldemort.[6]

Alohomora (Unlocking Charm)
Alohomora

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ah-LOH-ho-MOR-ah
    Description: Unlocks doors and other locked objects.[7] It can also unlock doors that have been sealed with a Locking Spell, although it is possible to bewitch doors to become unaffected by this spell.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger in 1991 to allow her and her friends to access the Third-floor corridor at her school, which was at the time forbidden;[7] she used it again two years later to free Sirius's cell in her teacher's prison room.[8]
    Etymology: The incantation is derived from the West African Sidiki dialect used in geomancy; it means "friendly to thieves".[9]

Amato Animo Animato Animagus (Animagus Spell)

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: ah-MAH-toh ah-NEE-moh ah-nee-MAH-toh an-a-MAY-jus
    Description: Spell used as part of the process of becoming an Animagus. The incantation has to be recited at sunrise and sundown, every day before the consumption of the Animagus Potion. The incantation is also recited just prior to the consumption of the potion, which has to take place just after a lightning storm starts. The incantation is recited while placing the wand's tip over one's heart.
    Etymology: Amato is a conjugation of the Latin word amo, which means "I love" or "I am obliged to". Animo and animato are both different conjugations of the Latin word animo, which can mean "I animate" or "I fill with breath or life". Animagus on the other hand appears to be a portmanteau of animo or "animal", and magus, which is Latin for "wizard".[citation needed] Overall, the incantation can roughly mean "My love brings me life, I am obliged to become an animal wizard."

Anapneo
Type: Healing Spell, Vanishment
Pronunciation: ah-NAP-nee-oh
Description: Clears the target's airway if they are choking on something.
Seen/Mentioned: Used by Horace Slughorn, cast upon Marcus Belby when the latter choked on a pheasant in 1996.
Etymology: From the Greek verb anapneo, meaning "I breathe in."
Anteoculatia
Anteoculatia

    Type: Dark charm
    Pronunciation: an-tee-oh-kyoo-LAY-chee-ah
    Description: Causes the target to grow antlers.[10]
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was used to make Pansy Parkinson grow antlers in 1996.[11]

(Anti-Cheating Spell)
Anti-CheatingSpell

    Type: Charm
    Description: Used to prevent cheating.
    Seen/Mentioned: These spells were used at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on writing quills and parchment to prevent students from cheating during their final exams, as well as their O.W.L.s and N.E.W.T.s.

(Anti-Disapparition Jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Prevents Disapparation in an area. It is used to entrap an enemy in an area.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Albus Dumbledore to trap some Death Eaters in the Department of Mysteries in 1996. Also mentioned that nobody can disapparate from Hogwarts; it is due to this jinx.

(Anti-intruder jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Prevents intruders from entering an area.
    Seen/Mentioned: It was placed on Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1996 for extra protection during an invasion of Death Eaters.

(Antonin Dolohov's curse)

    Type: Curse
    Description: An unknown curse that causes injuries that are capable of killing with enough power.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Antonin Dolohov during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries twice; Dolohov was under a Silencing Charm, and thus weakened the effects of this curse, saving Hermione from death, but incapacitated her and required her to take ten potions a day for some time.

Aparecium (Revealing Charm)
Aparecium
Type: Charm
Pronunciation: AH-par-EE-see-um
Description: Reveals secret messages written in invisible ink, or any other hidden markings. Also works against Concealing charms
Seen/Mentioned: Used (to no avail) in 1993 by Hermione Granger to attempt to reveal any hidden writing in a diary.
Etymology: Latin apparere, meaning "to appear"; -ium and -cium are common Latin noun endings.
Appare Vestigium (Tracking Spell)
COG Newt Appare Vestigium

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ah-PAR-ay ves-TEE-jee-um
    Description: Reveals traces of magic, including footprints and track marks.
    Seen/Mentioned: Newton Scamander used it to search for Porpentina Goldstein.

(Apparition)
Dumbledore and Harry performing Apparition

    Type: Transportation
    Description: Magically transports the caster to another location instantaneously. The destination is one that the primary user has been to or seen in some fashion previously. Can be used to apparate multiple people at once if holding each other. No incantation required.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used frequently by Wizardkind to teleport between places.

Aqua Eructo
Aqua Eructo
Type: Charm
Pronunciation: A-kwa ee-RUCK-toh
Description: This spell is used to create, and control, a jet of clear water from the tip of the wand; it is probably related to Aguamenti.
Seen/Mentioned: Used multiple times to extinguish fires in 1994.
Etymology: Aqua means, in Latin, water. Eructo is a verb meaning "I raise"; roughly translated, it means "I raise water".
Arania Exumai
Arania Exumai HM Spell Icon
Type: Charm
Pronunciation: ah-RAHN-ee-a EKS-su-may
Description: Drives away spiders, including Acromantulas.
Seen/Mentioned: Jacob's sibling used this spell to repel an Acromantula that guarded the Forest Vault in the Forbidden Forest.
Etymology: From the Latin aranea, meaning "spider", and exuo, meaning "I lay aside".
Arresto Momentum (Slowing Charm)
Wandless magic

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ah-REST-oh mo-MEN-tum
    Description: Decreases the velocity of a moving target. Can be used on multiple targets, as well as on the caster themselves. It was invented by Daisy Pennifold in 1711 for use on the Quaffle in Quidditch.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Dumbledore to save one of his students from a fall in 1993; Hermione Granger used it, to little effect, in 1998 to cushion an otherwise deadly fall.
    Etymology: Likely the combination of the Anglo-French arester, meaning "to bring to a stop" and the Latin momentum, meaning "the force or strength gained whilst moving"; the literal translation hence is "Bring the force or strength gained whilst moving to a stop".

(Arrow-shooting spell)
Arrow Shooting Spell HM

    Type: Conjuration
    Description: Fires arrows from the caster's wand.
    Seen/Mentioned: The spell used to be used by Appleby Arrows supporters at Quidditch matches to show their support for their teams; however, the British and Irish Quidditch League banned the use of the spell at matches when referee Nugent Potts was pierced through the nose with a stray arrow in 1894.

Ascendio
NewtAscendio
Type: Charm
Pronunciation: ah-SEN-dee-oh
Description: Lifts the caster high into the air. The charm also works underwater, propelling the caster above the surface.
Etymology: Derived from Latin ascendo, meaning "to climb".[12]
Avada Kedavra (Killing Curse)
Type: Curse
Pronunciation: ah-VAH-dah keh-DAV-rah
Description:
Avada-Kedavra
Causes instantaneous death. It is accompanied by a flash of green light and a rushing noise. There is no known Counter-curse that can protect the victim from dying, except for a loving sacrifice. It is one of the three Unforgivable Curses.[13]

Harry Potter was saved from this spell a number of times, both by his mother's sacrifice, because he was an accidental Horcrux, and because his wand and his enemy's were made of the same core.
Seen/Mentioned: Used by Tom Riddle to murder many of his victims without remorse.
Etymology: Avada Kedavra is based on the Aramaic אַבַדָא כְּדַברָא, avada kedavra, meaning "let the thing be destroyed".
Avifors (Avifors Spell)
Avifors

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: AH-vi-fors
    Description: Transforms the target into a bird.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in Transfiguration class.
    Etymology: From Latin avis meaning "bird" and forma meaning "shape".

Avenseguim
Avenseguim

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ah-ven-SEH-gwim
    Description: Turns an object into a tracking device.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1927, Newton Scamander used this spell to track the origins of a feather - a clue found during his search for Porpentina Goldstein - back to Yusuf Kama, whose hat the feather came from.
    Etymology: The incantation Avenseguim is likely derived from the portmanteau of avens, a Latin adjective for "eager" or "craving", and seguir, the Spanish and Portuguese verb meaning "to follow", or alternatively from the Catalan seguim, meaning "we follow". Taken together, Avenseguim can be interpreted as "to eagerly follow", which aptly characterises the behaviour of a tracking device.

Avis (Bird-Conjuring Charm)
Avis

    Type: Conjuration, Charm
    Pronunciation: AH-viss
    Description: Conjures a flock of birds from the tip of the wand. When used in conjunction with Oppugno, it can be used offensively.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used in 1994 by Mr Ollivander to test Viktor Krum's wand. Also employed offensively by Hermione Granger against Ron Weasley.
    Etymology: The Latin word avis means "bird".

B
(Babbling Curse)
Babbling Curse

    Type: Curse
    Description: Causes uncontrollable babbling.
    Seen/Mentioned: Although he was rather untrustworthy, it may not have occurred at all, but Gilderoy Lockhart says he cured a Transylvanian farmer of this affliction.[14]

(Badgering)
Badgered Boy

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Turns things into badgers[15]

(Bat-Bogey Hex)
Bat-Bogey Hex concept art

    Type: Hex
    Description: Transforms the target's bogeys into large bats that fly out of the victim's nose. It was invented by Miranda Goshawk.[16]
    Seen/Mentioned: Ginny Weasley was a noted practitioner of this spell, having used it at least thrice by her sixth year.[17]

Baubillious
Baubillious

    Type: Charm[15]
    Pronunciation: baw-BILL-ee-us
    Description: The exact effects of the spell are unknown, though it presumably is of damaging nature and it produces a bolt of white light from the tip of the wand.[15]
    Etymology: Currently unclear, probably from English bauble.
    Notes: This is likely the incantation for White sparks.

(Bedazzling Hex)

    Type: Hex
    Description: Allows the caster to disguise things.
    Seen/Mentioned: When Xenophilius Lovegood explains the concept of how the Cloak of Invisibility is the only thing that can make a person truly invisible, he mentions that most cloaks of that kind are made with this spell.[18]
    Note: Though the exact effects are unknown, based on the name (and the fact that it is used in conjunction with a chameleon charm on certain cloaks, it is probably used to conceal a person or object.

(Bewitched Snowballs)
BewitchedSnowballs

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes snowballs to pelt themselves at the target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Twice used by Fred and George Weasley; firstly on Professor Quirrell's head, unwittingly striking Lord Voldemort in the face,[19] and then again four years later to attack the windows of Gryffindor Tower.[20]

(Bluebell Flames)
BluebellFlames

    Type: Charm
    Description: Produces magical blue flames that can be held in a jar. Not as dangerous as real fire, these magical flames can be touched, penetrated and held without it burning the holder, though it is known to singe materials such as clothing and plants.[21]
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was a speciality of Hermione Granger's. She used it to defeat Devil's Snare in the Underground Chambers in 1992.[21]

(Blue sparks)
Blue Sparks HM Spell Icon

    Type: Charm
    Description: Jet of blue sparks. It can be used offensively as a minor duelling spell.
    Seen/Mentioned: Following the American National Quidditch team's win at the semi-finals of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup against Liechtenstein, red, white and blue sparks filled the air so thickly it was difficult to see or breathe.

Bombarda (Bombardment Spell)
Bombarda HM Spell Icon

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: bom-BAR-dah
    Description: Provokes a small explosion.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in fourth year Charms class.
    Etymology: From the word bombard, meaning "to attack a place or person continually with bombs or other missiles".

Bombarda Maxima
Bombarda Maxima 2

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: BOM-bar-dah MAX-ih-mah
    Description: Creates a large explosion capable of removing entire walls. A more advanced and more powerful form of the Bombardment Spell.

Brackium Emendo
Brackium Emendo

    Type: Charm, Healing Spell
    Pronunciation: BRA-key-um ee-MEN-doh
    Description: If used correctly, it is claimed that this spell will heal broken bones; this theory is supported by the etymology.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used unsuccessfully by Gilderoy Lockhart on Harry Potter in 1992 after the latter's arm was broken by a Bludger; it vanished all the bones, making it resemble rubber.
    Etymology: The word Brackium is likely derived from the Latin word "Bracchium" meaning "Forearm" or just "Arm", and Emendo, from the Latin word of the same spelling, meaning "I Correct" or "I Improve", the full meaning would be "I Correct/Improve the Forearm".

(Bravery Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Increases the bravery of a teammate, increasing their performance against certain foes.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught by Head of the Auror Office, Harry Potter, to members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, to help them address the results of the Calamity in the 2010s.

(Bridge-conjuring spell)
Bridge conjuring

    Type: Charm
    Description: Conjure a bridge from thin air.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was used by Ignotus, Antioch and Cadmus Peverell in The Tale of the Three Brothers to create a bridge over a treacherous river, a bridge upon which they met Death.[18][22]

(Broom jinx)
Broom jinx

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Used to make broomsticks try to throw their riders off through a variety of means such as sudden lurches and violent swishing movements. Constant eye contact is needed for the jinx to keep working.[23]
    Seen/Mentioned: It was used by Quirinus Quirrell against Harry Potter in 1991.[24]
    Notes: This may be related to the Hurling Hex.

(Bubble-Head Charm)
Cedric Diggory using Bubble-Head Charm for the Tri-wizard Tournament 2nd Task (Concept Artwork)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Produces a large bubble of air around the head of the user; it is commonly used as the supernatural equivalent of a breathing set.[25]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Cedric Diggory and Fleur Delacour in 1995;[25] it was used the next year by many students walking through the halls, because of horrid odours made by various pranks played on Dolores Umbridge.[11]

(Bubble Spell)
Bubbles

    Type: Charm
    Description: Produces a stream of non-bursting bubbles from the wand tip.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Professor Flitwick to decorate some trees;[19] the bubbles in this instance were golden. Used the following year by Ron Weasley when he broke his wand; these bubbles were purple.

C
Calvorio (Hair Loss Curse)
Calvorio - Lego

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: cal-VOR-ee-oh
    Description: Removes the victim's hair.
    Seen/Mentioned: The book Curses and Counter-Curses by Vindictus Viridian mentions this curse.[26]
    Etymology: From Latin calvus = "bald".

Cantis
Cantis

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: CAN-tiss
    Description: Causes the victim to burst uncontrollably into song.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by the Hogwarts professors to enchant suits of armour.[27]
    Etymology: Cantare is Latin for "sing".

Capacious extremis (Extension Charm)
Extension charm

    Pronunciation: ca-PAY-shus ex-TREEM-us
    Type: Charm
    Description: Expands the internal dimensions of an object without affecting the external dimensions, enhancing its capacity, and rendering its contents lighter.
    Seen/Mentioned: Newton Scamander used this spell to expand his suitcase so he could fit through and access the inside. Arthur Weasley used this spell to allow eight people, six large trunks, two owls, and a rat to fit comfortably inside his modified Ford Anglia in 1992. Also on the tent in which the Weasleys, Harry and Hermione stay during the Quidditch World Cup in 1994; the tent is also used by Harry, Ron and Hermione as shelter in 1997. Also, Hermione cast this spell upon her handbag in the same year.
    Etymology:'Capacious in English means when the capacity is very extreme, and Extremis is in latin, extreme. Meaning "Extreme Capacity"

Carpe Retractum (Seize and Pull Charm)
Carpe

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: CAR-pay ruh-TRACK-tum
    Description: Produces a rope of light used to pull objects towards the caster, or, if the target is fixed in place, to pull the caster towards the target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in third year Charms class.
    Etymology: From the Latin carpe, meaning "to seize" and retracto, meaning "I draw back".

(Cascading Jinx)
CascadingJinx

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Attacks multiple opponents in close proximity to each other.

(cat): Have your trusty cat read a note for you by putting it's contents on the screen (concatenate)
(Cat): Have your trusty cat read a note for you by putting it's contents on the screen (concatenate)

(Caterwauling Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Anyone entering the perimeter of this spell sets off a high-pitched shriek. This spell may be related to the Intruder Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was cast by the Death Eaters over Hogsmeade Wizarding Village to protect against intruders in 1998.

(Cauldron to Sieve)
Cauldron to Sieve

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Transforms cauldrons into sieves.

(Cauldron to badger)

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Transforms cauldrons into badgers.
    Notes: This spell may be Badgering.

Cave inimicum

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: CAH-vay uh-NIM-i-kuhm
    Description: Produces a boundary that keeps the caster hidden from others.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used multiple times by Hermione Granger in 1997 and 1998 to protect the tent she shared with Ron Weasley and Harry Potter.
    Etymology: The incantation is a Latin phrase which translates to "beware of the enemy".

(cd): Changes the room (directory) you are in. Can either be used relatively (go into folder) or absolutely (apparate)
(Cd): Changes the room (directory) you are in. Can either be used relatively (go into folder) or absolutely (apparate)

Celescere (Greenhouse Charm)
Greenhouse Charm WU icon

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes plants within a greenhouse to grow at an accelerated rate. It was created by combining elements of the Herbivicus Charm and Gemino Curse.

(Cheering Charm)
Cheering Charm HM Spell Icon

    Type: Charm
    Description: Makes the target feel happy. Overuse of the spell may cause the target to break into an uncontrollable laughing fit. This spell was invented by Felix Summerbee.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught to third-year charms classes, part of the written O.W.L.

Circumrota
Circumrota

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: SIR-cum-roh-tuh
    Description: Rotates objects.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was used by Leta Lestrange to rotate a record tower in the Records Room at the French Ministry of Magic Headquarters, revealing Newton Scamander and Porpentina Goldstein to be hiding behind the tower.

Cistem Aperio (Box Blasting Charm)
Cistem Aperio HM Spell Icon

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: SIS-tem uh-PE-ree-o
    Description: Opens chests and boxes.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was taught in fourth year Charms class at Hogwarts.
    Etymology: Aperio is Latin for "uncover" or "open"; Cista is Latin for "trunk" or "chest".

Colloportus (Locking Spell)
Colloportus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: cul-loh-POR-tus
    Description: Locks doors and all things that can be locked. It is the counter-charm to the Unlocking Spell.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger in 1996 in an attempt to prevent the Death Eaters that were following her from catching up.
    Etymology: Perhaps a portmanteau of the Latin words colligare, which means "restrain" and porta, which means "gate".
    Notes: This spell can easily be countered with Alohomora.

Colloshoo (Stickfast Hex)
Colloshoo

    Type: Hex
    Pronunciation: CAWL-low-shoo
    Description: Sticks the target's shoes to the ground.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell is mentioned twice, once as having been used on Severus Snape during a potions class, the other when one reads Curses and Counter-Curses by Vindictus Viridian.
    Etymology: The suffix "shoo" is a phonetic spelling of English "shoe"; the prefix collo may come from Greek "κολάω,κολώ" (pronounced "colao","colo"), which means "to glue".

Colovaria (Colour Change Charm)
PS House Cup winner updated

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: co-loh-VA-riah
    Description: Changes the target's colour.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by fifth-years in their OWLs.
    Etymology: Almost certainly a combination of English "colour" and "vary".

(Combat Bolt)
Combalt Bolt WU

    Description: Projects a bolt of energy.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force against various foes.

Confringo (Blasting Curse)
Blasting Curse DHF1

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: kon-FRING-goh
    Description: Produces a fiery explosion.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry Potter to destroy the side-car of a motorbike in which he was riding during a battle against some Death Eaters in 1997; it was later used by Hermione Granger in an attempt to kill Nagini and facilitate an escape from Godric's Hollow.
    Etymology: The incantation is direct Latin for "destroy".
    Notes: This spell seems to use heat for its explosion, while Expulso uses pressure instead.

Confundo (Confundus Charm)
NewtConfundus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: con-FUN-doh
    Description: Causes the victim to become confused and befuddled.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1994, Severus Snape asserted that Harry, Ron and Hermione had this charm cast on them so that they would believe Sirius Black's claim of innocence; used two years later by Hermione to allow Ron to join the Gryffindor Quidditch team. It was used multiple times in 1997 and 1998.
    Etymology: The incantation, when non-capitalised, means "I confuse"; the title may derive from the Latin confundere, meaning "to confuse" or "to perplex."

(Conjunctivitis Curse)

    Type: Curse
    Description: Causes irritation in the eyes, forcing them to swell shut. The Oculus Potion is able to counteract this curse. Dragons are particularly susceptible to this curse, as their hide makes them resistant to most spells, while their eyes remain vulnerable.
    Seen/Mentioned: It was suggested by Sirius Black in his letter to Harry for him to use this spell on a dragon. Olympe Maxime used this spell on some giants in 1995.
    Etymology: "Conjunctivitis" is the technical term for "pink eye," demonstrating its effects of irritating the eye and causing it to shut.

(Cornflake skin spell)

    Description: This spell causes the victim's skin to appear as though it was coated in cornflakes.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1996, an unnamed student went to the hospital for treatment after he was hit with it, which was done in retaliation for the Inquisitorial Squad's recent behaviour.

(Cracker Jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: This spell is used to conjure exploding wizard crackers; it can be used in duelling to harm the opponent, but the force of the explosion may also affect the caster.

(Cribbing Spell)

    Type: Spell
    Description: This spell, which may possibly be a charm, is used to assist the caster in cheating on written papers, tests, and exams. It is possible that these spells can negate anti-cheating spells.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1991, an unnamed Slytherin student asked his fellow students whether any of them knew any good cribbing spells.

Crinus Muto
Crinus Muto

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Used to transfigure the colour and style of one's hair.[10]
    Seen/Mentioned: This maybe be the spell that caused Harry to turn his eyebrow yellow in 1996. Harry may have used this spell to turn his teacher's hair blue.

Crucio (Cruciatus Curse)
Crucio

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: KROO-see-oh
    Description: Inflicts intense pain on the recipient of the curse. This curse does not physically harm the victim, but may in extreme cases drive them insane. The pain is described as having hot knives being driven into the victim. It cannot be cast successfully by a person who is doing so out of pure spite or anger; one must feel a true desire to cause the victim pain. If one casts this spell, he or she will receive a life sentence in Azkaban prison for it, as with the other two Unforgivable Curses.[13]
    Seen/Mentioned: Infamously used by Death Eaters Bellatrix Lestrange, Rabastan Lestrange, Rodolphus Lestrange and Bartemius Crouch Junior to torture the Aurors Frank and Alice Longbottom into insanity.[28]
    Etymology: Latin crucio means "I torture".

D
Defodio (Gouging Spell)
GougingSpell

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: deh-FOH-dee-oh
    Description: Allows the caster to dig and carve through the target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by The Trio to escape from a bank in 1998 while riding a dragon. It was later used by Harry to write the epitaph for Dobby, who had been killed.
    Etymology: The incantation is Latin for "I dig".

Deletrius (Eradication Spell)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: deh-LEE-tree-us
    Description: Counter-charm to the Reverse Spell, vanishing the image of the last spell cast. It may also disintegrate other certain images.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was only ever seen in 1994 when Amos Diggory used Prior Incantato to detect that Winky had cast Morsmordre using Harry Potter's wand.[29]
    Etymology: Latin delere, meaning "to destroy", and English "detritus", meaning rubble.

Densaugeo
Densaugeo Pottermore

    Type: Hex
    Pronunciation: den-SAW-jee-oh
    Description: This hex causes the victim's teeth to grow rapidly.[30]
    Seen/Mentioned: Introduced in 1994, when Draco Malfoy's spell rebounded upon Hermione Granger; her teeth were past her collar before she was forced to run to the hospital to get them shrunk.[30]
    Etymology: From Latin dens, meaning "tooth", and augeo, meaning "I enlarge"; essentially, it means "I enlarge the tooth".

Deprimo
DeprimoHM

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: deh-PREEM-oh
    Description: Charm used to blast holes in the ground.
    Seen/Mentioned: Hermione Granger blasted a hole through the living room floor of Xenophilius Lovegood's house in 1998 using this spell.[18]
    Etymology: The incantation, when non-capitalised, means "to depress" or "depress".

Depulso (Banishing Charm)
Depulso

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: deh-PUL-soh
    Description: Sends the target away from the caster. It is the counter-charm to the Summoning Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: Although it is learned in the fourth-year charms class at Hogwarts, it is used multiple times in 1993, as well as in 1995.
    Etymology: From the Latin depulsio, meaning "drive away".

Descendo
Descendo

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: deh-SEN-doh
    Description: Causes object to fall or move downwards.[31]
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1997, it was used by Ron to magically cause the stairs in his bedroom, which lead to his family's attic, to descend; later that year, Crabbe used it in an attempt to cause a wall of rubbish behind which Ron was hiding to fall on him.[31]
    Etymology: Descendo is Latin for "I descend".

(Desk Into Pig)
DeskIntoPig

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Turns desks into pigs.
    Seen/Mentioned: Professor McGonagall used this spell as a demonstration for her class of first years in 1991, then changed the pig back into a desk.[32]

(Deterioration Hex)

    Type: Hex
    Description: Impairs foes and reduces their stamina.
    Seen/Mentioned: Minerva McGonagall taught members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force this hex to help them address the results of the Calamity in the 2010s.

Diffindo (Severing Charm)
DiffindoCrop250

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: dih-FIN-doh
    Description: Used to precisely cut or tear objects.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used twice in 1994, the first time being by Harry Potter to cut Cedric Diggory's bag in order to talk to the latter,[2] and the second time being by Ron Weasley to cut the lace from the cuffs of his dress robes in an attempt to make them seem less feminine. The spell was used a third time by Harry to swap the covers of his second-hand and brand-new copies of Advanced Potion-Making.
    Etymology: Latin diffindere, meaning "to divide" or "to split".

Diminuendo
Diminuendo 1

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: dim-in-YEW-en-DOUGH
    Description: Forces the target to shrink.
    Seen/Mentioned: Performed by Nigel Wolpert in 1995, during a Dumbledore's Army meeting.
    Etymology: The incantation derives from the musical term diminuendo, meaning "a gradual decrease of the volume of sound".

Dissendium
Dissendium

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: dih-SEN-dee-um
    Description: Used to open passages.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used multiple times in 1993 to open the statue of Gunhilda of Gorsemoor, then again four years later in a failed attempt to open Salazar Slytherin's Locket.
    Etymology: There are numerous suggestions.
    Notes: This may not be a spell at all in the strict sense but a password; however, when used for the statue of the hump-backed witch, one must tap the statue with their wand, indicating that it is in fact a spell.

(Disillusionment Charm)
Disillusionment Charm

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes the target to blend seamlessly in with its surroundings, like a chameleon.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Alastor Moody to disguise Harry Potter in 1995.

Draconifors (Draconifors Spell)
DraconiforsPAS

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: drah-KOH-nih-fors
    Description: Transforms the target into a dragon.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in third year Transfiguration class.
    Etymology: From the Latin word draco, meaning "dragon", and forma meaning "shape".

(Drought Charm)
DroughtCharm

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes puddles and ponds to dry up. Though not powerful enough to drain a body of water like a lake
    Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned by Ronald Weasley in 1994 when Harry was getting ready for the Second Task of The Triwizard Tournament.

Ducklifors
Ducklifors

    Type: Transfiguration, Jinx
    Pronunciation: DUCK-lih-fors
    Description: Transforms the target into a duck.[10]
    Etymology: From the English duck, and the Latin forma meaning "shape".

Duro (Hardening Charm)
HM y3 Duro

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: DYOO-roh
    Description: Turns an object to stone.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger in 1998 while escaping from Death Eaters in the Battle of Hogwarts.[33]
    Etymology: Latin duro means "harden".

E
(Ears to kumquats spell)

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: This spell transforms the victim's ears into kumquats.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1995, Luna Lovegood read The Quibbler upside down in order to reveal the secret spell, written in Ancient Runes.[34]

(Ear-shrivelling Curse)

    Type: Curse
    Description: Causes the target's ears to shrivel up.
    Seen/Mentioned: Sometime between 1989 and 1994, Bill Weasley's pen-friend sent him a hat with this curse on it.

Ebublio (Ebublio Jinx)
EbublioJinxHM

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: ee-BUB-lee-oh
    Description: Causes the victim to be trapped in a large bubble.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used often by members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force.[35]

Engorgio (Engorgement Charm)
Engorgio

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: en-GOR-jee-oh
    Description: Causes the target to swell in physical size. Its counter-charm is the Shrinking Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: Rubeus Hagrid used this spell on his pumpkins in 1992; two years later, Barty Crouch Jnr cast this spell on a spider to make it easier for students to see when he cast a curse on it. Used on another spider three years later to test a new wand.
    Etymology: The English word engorge means "swell".
    Notes: There is much speculation that this spell is the same as the Growth Charm, though this cannot be proven. Note that there is a difference between enlarging and engorging something, similar though they may seem.

Engorgio Skullus
Engorgio skullus

    Type: Dark charm
    Pronunciation: in-GORE-jee-oh SKUH-las
    Description: Causes the victim's skull to swell disproportionately.[10] This spell may be a variation of the Engorgement Charm, as they share the first word of the incantation. Its countercurse is Redactum Skullus.
    Etymology: See etymology for above entry; "skullus" is Latin for "skull".

Entomorphis (Insect Jinx)
Entomorphis

    Type: Jinx, Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: en-TOE-morph-is
    Description: This jinx is used to transform the target into an insectoid for a short time.[10]
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry Potter contemplated using this jinx against Dudley Dursley in 1995, though he decided against it.

(Entrail-Expelling Curse)

    Type: Curse
    Description: Expels victim's entrails. Precise effects unknown. Invented by Urquhart Rackharrow.
    Seen/Mentioned: When Harry Potter visited St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries in December 1995, he saw the portrait of Urquhart Rackharrow, which mentioned his invention of this curse.[36]

Episkey
Episkey HM Spell Icon

    Type: Healing Spell
    Pronunciation: ee-PIS-key
    Description: Used to heal relatively minor injuries, such as broken bones and cartilage.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1996, Nymphadora Tonks used this spell to fix Harry's broken nose after Draco Malfoy broke it on the Hogwarts Express,[37] Harry, in turn, used it to heal Demelza Robins' swollen lip after Ron punched her during Quidditch practice.[38]
    Etymology: The word comes from Greek "episkeui" ("επισκευή"), which means "repair".
    Notes: This is part of a family of healing spells.

Epoximise
Epoximise

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: ee-POX-i-mise
    Description: Adheres one object to another, as if they had been glued together.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell is often used by students to adhere each other's belongings to their desks (or, unfortunately, their hands).
    Etymology: Epoximise comes from the English word epoxy, which is a type of adhesive.
    Notes: This spell may be the Permanent Sticking Charm or a variation.

Erecto
Ereto1

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: eh-RECK-toh
    Description: Used to erect a tent or other upright structure.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger to construct a shelter for her, Harry Potter, and Ronald Weasley in 1997.
    Etymology: Erectum is past principle of erigere, which is Latin for "to erect".

Evanesce
Evanesce1

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: ev-an-ES-key
    Description: Vanishes the target
    Notes: This and the Vanishing Spell are almost certainly the same spell.

Evanesco (Vanishing Spell)
HM y4 Evanesco

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: ev-an-ES-koh
    Description: Vanishes the target. Vanished things go "into non-being, which is to say, everything."
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by William Weasley to vanish a bundle of old scrolls whilst cleaning 12 Grimmauld Place in 1995.[39]
    Etymology: From "evanescene", meaning "something that is fleeting or disappears.

Everte Statum
Everte Statum

    Type: Spell
    Pronunciation: ee-VER-tay STAH-tum
    Description: Throws the victim backward, similarly to being thrown.
    Seen/Mentioned: Draco Malfoy used this spell on Harry Potter in 1992 during the Duelling Club.[40]
    Etymology: The Latin words everte, which means "to throw out" and statua, from the same language, meaning "image".

Expecto Patronum (Patronus Charm)
Patronus2

Luna practising the Patronus Charm during a D.A. meeting

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ecks-PECK-toh pah-TROH-numb
    Description: This charm is a highly powerful and advanced protective spell which will conjure a spirit guardian of their positive emotions to defend against dark creatures; it can also send messages to other witches or wizards. The Patronus takes the form of an animal, unique to each person who casts it. The form of a Patronus can change when one has undergone a period of heightened emotion.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught to Harry Potter by Remus Lupin during his Anti-Dementor lessons;[41] Harry later taught Dumbledore's Army this charm.[42] This is the only known spell effective against Dementors or Lethifolds.
    Etymology: Patronus means "protector" in Latin; in archaic Latin, it means "father"; considering the form Harry's takes, this is interesting. The Latin word expecto means "I await"[43]

Expelliarmus (Disarming Charm)
Snape disarms Lockhart

Severus Snape using Expelliarmus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ex-PELL-ee-ARE-muss
    Description: Forces whatever an opponent is holding to fly out of their hand. It was considered to be Harry Potter's signature spell.[44]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Severus Snape on Gilderoy Lockhart during a live duelling demonstration during the first and last meeting of the Duelling Club in 1992.[40]
    Etymology: Probably a combination of Latin expello, meaning "expel", and arma, meaning "weapon".

Expulso (Expulso Curse)
Expulso

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: ecks-PUHL-soh
    Description: Provokes an explosion, unique in that it uses pressure to do so as opposed to heat.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Antonin Dolohov during a fight in a cafe in 1997.[45]
    Etymology: From expulsum, which is past principle of expellere, which means "expel".

(Extinguishing Spell)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Puts out fires.
    Seen/Mentioned: Charlie Weasley and his friends would use this spell should something go wrong in the tournament.[46]

F
(False memory spell)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Implants a false memory in the victim without them realising it was not originally theirs.
    Seen/Mentioned: Voldemort used this spell twice; firstly in 1943 upon his uncle Morfin Gaunt, then sometime later on the house-elf Hokey. Both instances were to hide his crimes and make the victims believe they were responsible. It is likely that Kingsley Shacklebolt used this spell on Marietta Edgecombe in 1996 in order to prevent her from revealing Dumbledore's Army to Cornelius Fudge. This is reinforced by Dumbledore stating that Shacklebolt was "remarkably quick on the uptake" in modifying her memory. It is possible that Professor Horace Slughorn used this in the next school year to hide his memory of Voldemort asking him about Horcruxes, although as he retained awareness of the true memory his spell may be a different one. It is also possible that he simply repressed it to such a degree that it could not be extracted from him against his will, as the memory he gave Dumbledore simple went blank at the right times and was replaced by a disembodied shouting, rather than images; this was noted to be crudely done. Hermione Granger used this in 1997 to make her parents believe they were named Wendell and Monica Wilkins respectively, that they have no daughter, and to make them move to Australia in order to protect them from Voldemort and his Death Eaters.

(Feather-light charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Makes an object light as a feather.
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry Potter contemplated using this in 1993 to lighten his trunk so that he could carry it by broom to Gringotts, though he decided against it.

(Ferret to human)
Ferret to human GIF

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Transforms a ferret into a human.
    Seen/Mentioned: It was used by Minerva McGonagall on Draco Malfoy in 1994.

Ferula (Bandaging Charm)

    Type: Conjuration, Healing spell
    Pronunciation: fer-ROOL-lah
    Description: Conjures up bandages and wraps them around a wound, splinting any broken bones.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Remus Lupin in 1994 to bind Ronald Weasley's broken leg.
    Etymology: Latin ferula means "walking-stick" or "splint".

Fianto Duri
FiantoDurihs

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: fee-AN-toh DOO-ree
    Description: A defensive charm which, based on the etymology, strengthens shield spells, and perhaps objects in general, in a similar way to Duro.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used to protect Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1998.
    Etymology: Latin fiant means "become" and duri means "hard".

(Fidelius Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: An immensely complex charm used to hide secret information within the soul of the charm's recipient, who is called a Secret-Keeper. The information is irretrievable unless the Secret-Keeper willingly chooses to reveal it, and only the aforementioned person can do so.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1993, it was explained that when Harry was merely an infant, he and his parents were hidden from Voldemort with this charm; from 1995 onward it was used to protect Grimmauld Place, and in 1998 it was used to protect Shell Cottage.
    Etymology: Latin fidelis, which means "faithful".
    Notes: Although when a Secret-Keeper dies the secret they held can never be revealed to anyone else[47], in 1997 it is apparent that upon the Keeper's death all those who had been told the secret become keepers in turn.
    Notes (2): This charm seems to have no effect with regard to animals, as Hedwig found Ron and Hermione in a location that was protected by this charm; however, it is possible that Dumbledore somehow told her, ludicrous though such may seem.
    Notes (3): In 1981, Hagrid managed to get to Harry before all the Muggles could look at it; this makes it appear as though the Killing Curse will negate the effect of the Fidelius Charm.
    Notes (4): Those who have been told of the secret by secret-keepers still cannot pass the secret on, as proven by Severus Snape and Bellatrix Lestrange.

(Fiendfyre)
Fiendfyre DHF2

Fiendfyre in the Room of Requirement caused by Vincent Crabbe

    Type: Curse
    Description: Unleashes cursed fire that takes the shape of animals that actively seek out living targets and burn anything in its path, including nearly indestructible substances such as horcruxes. In addition, this fire is made even more dangerous due to the fact that it is extremely difficult to control, and cannot be extinguished with normal or enchanted water.[31]
    Seen/Mentioned: Though there are numerous instances when it may have been used, it was only proven to have been used in 1998 by Vincent Crabbe, who was killed by it.[31]

Finestra (Finestra spell)
Finestra

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: fi-NESS-tra
    Description: Shatters glass.
    Seen/Mentioned: On 6 December 1926, Newt Scamander shattered the front window of the Voclain & Co. jewellery store in New York using this spell to try and recapture his escaped niffler when he saw it loose inside the store stealing things.

Finite Incantatem (General Counter-Spell)
Finite Incantatem

    Type: Counter-Spell
    Pronunciation: fi-NEE-tay in-can-TAH-tem
    Description: Terminates all spell effects in the vicinity of the caster.
    Seen/Mentioned: Severus Snape used this to restore order to the Duelling Club in 1992, after the event had descended into utter chaos.[40]
    Etymology: Latin finire, meaning "to finish", and incantatem.

(Finger-removing jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Removes a person's fingers.
    Seen/Mentioned: Gunhilda Kneen jinxed her husband with this spell.

(Firestorm)
Dumbledore fighting the Inferi

Albus Dumbledore fighting the Inferi inside the cave in 1997

    Type: Charm
    Description: Produces a ring of fire from the wand.
    Seen/Mentioned: Albus Dumbledore used this spell to rescue Harry from Inferi in 1997.

(Flagrante Curse)
DH2 Harry Potter in Bellatrix Lestrange's vault

The valuables in the Lestrange Vault were protected with Flagrante curses

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: flah-GRAHN-tay
    Description: Causes objects to burn on contact.
    Seen/Mentioned: The Lestrange Vault had this curse on it.

Flagrate
I am Lord Voldemort

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: flah-GRAH-tay
    Description: Writes in midair with firey marks.
    Seen/Mentioned: Tom Riddle used this spell to write his name; Hermione Granger used it three years later to mark some doors.
    Etymology: From the Latin flagrate, meaning "a burn".

(Flame-Freezing Charm)
FlameFreeze

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes fire to tickle those caught in it instead of burning them.
    Seen/Mentioned: Third year students wrote an essay on the use of this charm in medieval witch-burnings; Wendelin the Weird was burned forty-seven times.
    Notes: This may be the spell used in Floo Network, as well as when Albus Dumbledore set Tom Riddle's wardrobe aflame in 1938.

(Flask-conjuring spell)

    Type: Conjuration
    Description: Conjures a glass flask
    Seen/Mentioned: On 1 May, 1998, Hermione Granger used this spell to collect the memories of a dying Severus Snape.

Flintifors
Harry-Potter-Sorcerer-PC-Flintifors-Splash3

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: FLINT-i-fors
    Description: Transforms objects into matchboxes.
    Seen/Mentioned: In the 1980s, this spell was covered in third year transfiguration classes.
    Notes: This may be related to, or the incantation for Match to needle.

Flipendo (Knockback Jinx)
Flipendo

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: fli-PEN-doh
    Description: Knocks objects and creatures backwards.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in first year Defence Against the Dark Arts and Charms class.

Flipendo Duo (Knockback Jinx Duo)

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: flih-PEN-doh DOO-oh
    Description: A more powerful version of Flipendo.

Flipendo Maxima'
Flipendo Maxima HM Spell Icon

    Type: Jinx
    Description: A more powerful version of the Knockback Jinx, which threw the target back at a much greater force.
    Seen/Mentioned: Invented by Badeea Ali in the 1989–1990 school year, who taught it to fellow sixth year students.

Flipendo Tria

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: flih-PEN-doh TREE-ah
    Description: A more powerful version of Flipendo Duo; it is said to resemble a miniature tornado.


(Flying charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: This spell is cast on broomsticks and flying carpets to allow them to fly.
    Seen/Mentioned: Draco Malfoy mentioned this spell when insulting Ron Weasley's broomstick, wondering why anyone would charm it.

Fracto Strata
Fracto Strata LEGOY1

    Type: Spell
    Pronunciation: Fracto Strata (Pronunciation Unknown)
    Description: zap-type spell which can break weak objects into pieces.
    Seen/Mentioned: This is the main offensive spell used in the LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1-4 and LEGO Harry Potter: Years 5-7 games.
    Etymology: From the Latin fractus, meaning broken, and stratus, meaning spread out or covered.

Fumos (Smokescreen Spell)
Smokescreen Spell PM

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: FYOO-moss
    Description: Defensive smokescreen that hinders visibility.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell is covered in The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection.

Fumos Duo

    Type: Charm
    Description: A more powerful version of Fumos.

Furnunculus (Pimple Jinx)
Furnunculus

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: fer-NUN-kyoo-luss
    Description: Covers the target in boils (or pimples).[30]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry Potter on Gregory Goyle.[30]
    Etymology: Latin furnunculus, meaning "petty thief", or English furuncle, a synonym for "boil".

(Fur spell)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes fur to grow on the victim.
    Seen/Mentioned: Fred and George Weasley used this spell on each other.

G
Geminio (Doubling Charm)
Gemino Curse

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: jeh-MIH-nee-oh
    Description: Duplicates the target. When used to duplicate objects indefinitely on purpose, is known as the Gemino Curse.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger on Salazar Slytherin's Locket to disguise her presence from Dolores Umbridge. Also used in the Lestrange family vault to keep the trio from stealing the horcrux.
    Etymology: The Latin word gemini means "twins".

Glacius (Freezing Spell)
Glacius

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: GLAY-see-us
    Description: Freezes the target with icy-cold air.
    Etymology: From Latin glacies, which means "ice".
    Notes: Not to be confused with the Freezing Charm, which merely immobilises things.

Glacius Duo

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: GLAY-see-us DOO-oh
    Description: A more powerful version of Glacius.
    Etymology: From Latin glacies, which means "ice".

Glacius Tria

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: GLAY-see-us TREE-ah
    Description: A more powerful version of Glacius Duo.
    Etymology: From Latin glacies, which means "ice".

Glisseo (Sliding Spell)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: GLISS-ee-oh
    Description: Causes the steps on a stairway to flatten into a slide.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger to escape from Death Eaters.
    Etymology: Probably derived from French glisser, meaning "to slide".

(Green Sparks)

    Description: Jet of green sparks that can be used to signal an emergency or as a minor duelling spell.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in Defence Against the Dark Arts; When Hagrid, Harry and Hermione try to find an injured unicorn, Hagrid says that if it is found, they must send up green sparks.
    Notes: The incantation is almost certainly Verdimillious.

(grep): Finds patterns/phrases is big files. Works by doing `grep "PATTERN" ./FILE`
(Grep): Finds patterns/phrases is big files. Works by doing `grep "PATTERN" ./FILE`

(Gripping Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Helps someone grip something more effectively.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used on Quaffles to help Chasers carry them.

(Gytrash-conjuring spell)
GytrashConjuring

    Type: Conjuration, Dark Arts
    Description: Conjures luminous green Gytrashes from the wand, which can be commanded by the caster to attack an opponent.
Illegibilus
Illegibilus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: i-LEDJ-i-bull-is
    Description: Makes writing impossible to read.

Immobulus (Freezing Charm)
Immobulus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ih-MOH-byoo-luhs
    Description: Immobilises and stops the actions of the target. It works both on living and inanimate things.
    Seen/Mentioned: Hermione used it 1992 to freeze two Cornish Pixies.[51] Horace Slughorn used Freezing Charms to disable a Muggle Burglar Alarm.[52]
    Etymology: From the Latin “immobilis”, meaning immovable.

Impedimenta (Impediment Jinx)
Impedimenta Jinx

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: im-ped-ih-MEN-tah
    Description: Slows down or stops the target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used in 1995 when Harry was practising for the Third Task of the Triwizard Tournament. In 1996, Harry saw in a memory that James Potter used it on Severus Snape. Also used in 1997 by Harry against the Inferi and Snape. Stronger uses of this spell seem capable of blowing targets away.
    Etymology: Latin impedimentum (plural impedimenta), "a hindrance" or "an impediment".

Imperio (Imperius Curse)
Krumimperius

Viktor Krum under the effects of Barty Crouch Jnr's Imperius Curse

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: im-PEER-ee-oh
    Description: Places the victim completely under the caster's control. The victim is put into a trance-like state, and becomes very suggestible to the commands of the caster. However, those who are strong willed may learn to resist it. One of the three "Unforgivable Curses," the use of this curse on another human results in capital punishment or life sentence in Azkaban.[13]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used on many occasions. First seen in 1994 when Barty Crouch Jnr, impersonating ex-Auror Alastor Moody, used it on a spider and later on students during a "class demonstration" in a Defence Against the Dark Arts class. While breaking into Gringotts in 1998, Harry used it on a goblin and a Death Eater when they became suspicious.
    Etymology: Latin impero, I command, and English "imperious".

(Imperturbable Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Creates an invisible magical barrier on an object, such as a door. This barrier bounces objects off of it, and muffles sounds.
    Seen/Mentioned: It used by Molly Weasley in the same year on the door of the room in which an Order of the Phoenix meeting was being held, in order to prevent her sons, Fred and George, from eavesdropping.[53]

Impervius (Impervius Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: im-PUR-vee-us
    Description: Makes an object repel water and mist.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger in 1993 on Harry's glasses while in a Quidditch match and also by the Gryffindor Quidditch team. Also used in 1997, first by Ron to protect objects in Yaxley's office from rain, and then by Hermione to protect Harry, Ron and Griphook from the burning treasure in the Lestranges' vault.
    Etymology: It is said that the Latin impervius means (and is the source of) "impervious"; although it is the source of the word, it is better translated as impassable, as in a mountain peak.

Inanimatus Conjurus (Inanimatus Conjurus Spell)

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: in-an-ih-MAH-tus CON-jur-us
    Description: It is a spell of unknown effect, most likely used to conjure an inanimate object.
    Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned briefly in 1995.

Incarcerous (Incarcerous Spell)
Incarcerous

    Type: Conjuration
    Pronunciation: in-KAR-ser-us
    Description: Ties up the target with ropes conjured from thin air.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used 1996, when Dolores Umbridge tries to hold off Centaurs. Also used by Harry on the Inferi in Voldemort's Crystal Cave in 1997 and also attempted to use it on Severus Snape in the same year.
    Etymology: Probably English incarcerate, "to imprison". Possibly linked to the Latin in carcerem, "in(to) prison".
    Notes: A non-verbal version of this spell may have been used to tie up Remus Lupin by Severus Snape during the encounter in the Shrieking Shack, and then later Peter Pettigrew in 1994. It may also have been used by Quirrell in 1992, although he is said to have merely "snapped his fingers". Also, it may have been the spell Antonin Dolohov used non-verbally to bind Ron Weasley with "shining black ropes" in a skirmish on Tottenham Court Road.

Incendio (Fire-Making Spell)
IncendioHM

    Type: Charm, Conjuration
    Pronunciation: in-SEN-dee-oh
    Description: Produces fire.
    Seen/Mentioned: It was used in 1994 by Arthur Weasley to create a fire in the Dursleys' hearth so that he could use Floo Powder there.[54]
    Etymology: Latin incendere, "to set fire (to)". Note that the first principal part of this verb (meaning "I set fire") is incendo, not incendio; the incantation does not match exactly any correct conjugation of the verb. Incêndio, in Portuguese (same pronunciation as in English) means 'huge fire'. "Encender" in Spanish means "to ignite" and "Incendie" in French means flame. (A plausible but less likely source might be that it is a back-formation from the English word "incendiary," i.e., "causing fire.")

Incendio Duo

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: in-SEN-dee-oh DOO-oh
    Description: A stronger version of Incendio.

Incendio Tria

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: in-SEN-dee-oh TREE-ah
    Description: An improvement over both Incendio and Incendio Duo.

Inflatus
Sister

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: in-FLAY-tus
    Description: Inflates the target, filling it with air.
    Etymology: The prefix 'Inflate' derives from the English verb "to expand with oxygen".

Informous (Informous Spell)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: in-FOR-m-es
    Description: Informous is a spell that is used to complete one's Folio Bruti. A page with a brief description (including weaknesses and strengths) of the charmed creature is added to the caster's Folio Bruti.
    Etymology: The prefix Info derives from the English verb "to inform".

(Instant scalping hex)

    Type: Hex
    Description: Instantly scalps all the hair off of a target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry Potter came across it while browsing the index of Basic Hexes for the Busy and Vexed, trying to find a way to fight the dragon he knew he would have to face for the First Task of the Triwizard Tournament. He quickly decided it would be ineffective, because dragons do not have hair.
    Notes: This spell has similar effects to the Hair Loss Curse.

(Intruder Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Detects intruders and sounds an alarm.
    Seen/Mentioned: Horace Slughorn used it on a Muggle-owned house he stayed in temporarily in 1996, but did not hear it go off when Albus Dumbledore and Harry Potter arrived, as he was in the bath.

J
Locomotor Wibbly (Jelly-Legs Curse)
LocomotorWibbly

    Type: Curse, Jinx
    Pronunciation: loh-koh-MOH-tor WIB-lee
    Description: Causes the victim's legs to collapse as if they were turned to jelly.
    Seen/Mentioned: One of the spells mentioned in Curses and Counter-Curses by Vindictus Viridian, used on Harry, practising for the Third Task of the Triwizard Tournament, by Hermione. Also, Draco Malfoy was hit with this jinx (along with another one) at the end of the term.

(Jelly-Brain Jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Reduces the target's mental processes.
    Seen/Mentioned: During the September 1999 riot that took place during the Puddlemere United/Holyhead Harpies Quidditch game, a lot of Harpy supporters were using this jinx.
    Notes: This spell may have been the spell that the Death Eaters hit Ron with in Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.

(Jelly-Fingers Curse)

    Type: Curse
    Description: Causes target's fingers to become wobbly, making it uneasy for the victim to grasp objects.
    Seen/Mentioned: After a June 1999 Pride of Portree/Appleby Arrows Quidditch game, the losing Seeker accused his opposite number of putting this curse on him as they both closed in on the Snitch.

K
(Knee-reversal hex)
KneeReversal

    Type: Hex
    Description: Puts knees on backward.[16]
    Seen/mentioned: In Quidditch Through the Ages, Gertie Keddle uses this hex when a man playing an early form of Quidditch comes to retrieve his ball from her garden.

L
Lacarnum Inflamari
Lacarnum Inflamarae

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: la-KAR-num in-flah-MAR-ee
    Description: Ignites cloaks.
    Seen/Mentioned:
    Etymology: Latin inflammo, or the verb inflammatio meaning "to set on fire". Lacarnum, from the Latin “lacerna”, meaning “cloak”.

Langlock
Langlock

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: LANG-lock
    Description: Sticks a victim's tongue to the roof of their mouth. Created by Severus Snape.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry on Peeves and twice on Argus Filch, to general applause.
    Etymology: Probably from the French langue ("tongue") and the English "lock".

Lapifors (Lapifors Spell)
Lapifors 2

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: LAP-ih-forz
    Description: Transforms the target into a rabbit.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in third year Transfiguration class.
    Etymology: From Latin lepus meaning hare, and forma meaning "shape".

(Leek Jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Makes leeks sprout out of the target's ears.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by a fighting Gryffindor fourth year and sixth year Slytherin before a Quidditch match in 1992.[55]

Legilimens (Legilimency Spell)
Legilimency

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: Le-JIL-ih-mens
    Description: Allows the caster to delve into the mind of the victim, allowing the caster to see the memories, thoughts, and emotions of the victim.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Severus Snape on Harry after he had a dream about Arthur Weasley being attacked by Nagini in 1995. Also during Occlumency lessons in 1996. Also used non-verbally by Snape on Harry in 1997 to allow him to see where Harry had learned the Sectumsempra spell.
    Etymology: Latin legere ("to read") and mens ("mind").

Levicorpus
Levicorpus1

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: leh-vee-COR-pus
    Description: Hoists people up into the air by their ankle.[56] Created by Severus Snape.[5]
    Seen/Mentioned: Apparently invented by the Half-Blood Prince; it is a non-verbal-only spell (although it is whispered by Hermione in 1997). Harry Potter learnt it by reading the notes written by the Half-Blood Prince. He used it on Ron. The previous year, Harry had seen (through the Pensieve used by Severus Snape) his father, James Potter, use the spell against Professor Snape.
    Etymology: Latin levare, "raise" and corpus, "body" or "corpse".

Liberacorpus
Liberacorpus

    Type: Counter-Jinx
    Pronunciation: LIB-er-ah-cor-pus
    Description: The counter-jinx to Levicorpus.[56]
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry used the spell in 1996 to counteract Levicorpus he had inadvertently cast on Ron.[56]
    Etymology: Latin liberare, "to free", and corpus, "body" or "corpse".
    Notes: It is not clear why Levicorpus has a specific counter-spell, and is not neutralised by simply using Finite Incantatem, although this could be due to the fact that Snape invented the spell and therefore made it irreversible except by its specific counter-curse.

Locomotor (Locomotion Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: loh-kuh-MOH-tor
    Description: Allows a witch or wizard to levitate a target a few inches off of the ground and then move said object in any given direction. Similarly to the Summoning Charm, a specific object can be moved by calling the object aloud after saying the incantation.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Nymphadora Tonks in Harry Potter to move Harry's trunk from his room. Filius Flitwick similarly used it to move Sybill Trelawney's trunk after Dolores Umbridge sacked her. Parvati Patil and Lavender Brown used this spell to race their pencil cases around the edges of the table. A variation seen in 1998 is Piertotum Locomotor, which caused the statues of Hogwarts to be animated.
    Etymology: Latin locus (place) and moto, "set in motion" (passive motor), or English locomotion.

Locomotor Mortis (Leg-Locker Curse)
LocomotorMortisHM

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: LOH-koh-moh-tor MOR-tis
    Description: Sticks legs together.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Draco Malfoy on Neville Longbottom in 1991.[57] Used by Harry Potter on Draco Malfoy, who deflected it, in 1996.[58]
    Etymology: English locomotion, "movement" + Latin mortis, "of death".
    Notes: It is unclear whether or how this spell is related to the Locomotor spell. It could, however, be that the curse "locks" any part of the body in accordance to where it is pointed, or moves the body into a position of the caster's choosing whilst placing them into an immobile state. It is possible that Draco had pointed his wand at Neville and the curse "locked" his legs together.

(ls): Lights up the room you are in, showing all the files/directories/programs that are there (see Lumos)
(Ls): Lights up the room you are in, showing all the files/directories/programs that are there (see Lumos)

(ls -al): Reveals hidden things such as files/directores/programs that start with a ".". Lumos on steroids (see Revelio)
(Ls -al): Reveals hidden things such as files/directores/programs that start with a ".". Lumos on steroids (see Revelio)

Lumos (Wand-Lighting Charm)
Wand-lighting charm

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: LOO-mos
    Description: Illuminates the tip of the caster's wand, allowing the caster to see in the dark.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Albus Dumbledore to illuminate the dark cave in 1997.
    Etymology: Latin lumen, "light".
    Notes: opposite incantation, Nox, puts the light out.

Lumos Duo

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: LOO-mos DOO-oh
    Description: Creates a focused beam of light from the end of the wand. It is a variant of the Wand-Lighting Charm.
    Etymology: Lumos plus Latin duo, "two".

Lumos Maxima
Lumos Maxima

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: LOO-mos Ma-cks-ima
    Description: Produces a blinding flash of bright white light from the tip of the wand. It is a variant of the Wand-Lighting Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: First practised by Harry in the home of the Dursleys, then used by Dumbledore to light up the cave of the Horcrux.
    Etymology: Lumos + maxima, Latin "greatest."

Lumos Solem (Lumos Solem Spell)
Lumos Solem Spell HM

Lumos Solem as used by Hermione on the Devil's Snare

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: LOO-mos SO-lem
    Description: Produce a blinding flash of sunlight. It is a variant of the Wand-Lighting Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione to free Ron from the Devil's Snare. The incantation was only used in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.
    Etymology: Derived from two words; the Latin lumen, meaning "light", and the Latin word for "sun", which in its accusative case is "solem".
    Notes: It is possible that the quality of the light is on the warmer solar end of the spectrum; Considering the known uses that the spell has been put to, it isn't that much of a stretch to presume that the spell is used to conjure Sunlight.

M
Magicus Extremos

    Type: Charm
    Description: Partnership-based charm that temporarily increases the casters' spell power.

Melofors (Melofors Jinx)
MeloforsPOA

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Encases the victim's head in a pumpkin.[10]
    Seen/Mentioned: Cornelius Fudge was rumoured to have been a victim of this jinx after having been overpowered by Albus Dumbledore in a duel in 1996.[59]

Meteolojinx Recanto
Meteolojinx Recanto

    Type: Counter-Charm
    Pronunciation: mee-tee-OH-loh-jinks reh-CAN-toh.
    Description: Causes weather effects caused by jinxes to cease.
    Seen/Mentioned: Suggested in 1997 by Arthur Weasley to Ron (disguised as Reginald Cattermole by use of Polyjuice Potion) as the best way to clear up the rain jinx on a Ministry office. Also used by Bartemius Crouch Jnr (Disguised as Alastor Moody) In 1994 to cease the weather effect of the Great Hall's Ceiling insisting it is broken as he told Dumbledore to "Fix his ceiling".
    Etymology: Meteorology, the study of weather, the word jinx and recant, "to withdraw or retract". Interestingly in modern English recant means to say that you no longer hold a belief.

Mimblewimble (Tongue-Tying Curse)
Mimblewimble

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: MIM-bull-wim-bull
    Description: Ties the target's tongue in a knot, preventing them from making coherent speech, or saying incantations correctly, making it useful in duels.
    Seen/Mentioned: Seen in 1997 as a deterrent to Severus Snape, or any other unwanted visitor of 12 Grimmauld Place, from betraying their location to anyone else.

(Ministry of Magic Fog)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Patented charm used by the Ministry for Magic to conceal certain areas from Muggle view.
    Seen/Mentioned: Seen in 1997 as a deterrent to Severus Snape, or any other unwanted visitor of 12 Grimmauld Place, from betraying their location to anyone else.
    Notes: In 1999, after the Invisibility Charm debacle at the Exmoor Quidditch Stadium, the Ministry considered trying this fog to hide the stadium from view.

Mobiliarbus
Mobiliarbus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: mo-bil-lee-AR-bus
    Description: Levitates wooden objects a few inches off of the ground and moves them in any given direction.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1993, Hermione Granger used the spell to move a Christmas Tree in The Three Broomsticks beside her table to hide Harry Potter, who was in Hogsmeade illegally.
    Etymology: Latin mobilis, "movable" or "flexible", and arbor (alternatively arbos), "tree".
    Notes: It is possible that Mobilicorpus and Mobiliarbus are variations of the same basic spell, since they share the "Mobili-" stem.

Mobilicorpus
Burbage at manor

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: moh-bil-lee-COR-pus
    Description: Levitates and moves bodies.
    Seen/Mentioned: Sirius Black used it on Severus Snape in 1994. It was probably used on Peter Pettigrew by Lord Voldemort in the graveyard to make him come forward.
    Etymology: Latin mobilis, "movable", and corpus, "body".
    Notes: It is possible that Mobiliarbus and Mobilicorpus are variations of the same basic spell, since they share the "Mobili-" stem.

Molliare (Cushioning Charm)
Effects of Cushioning Charm

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: mull-ee-AR-ay
    Description: Produces an invisible cushion over the target, is used primarily in the manufacturing of broomsticks.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger to cushion her, Harry, and Ron's fall in Gringotts Wizard Bank in 1998.
    Notes: This spell may be related to Arresto Momentum and Spongify.

Disintegration spell
Bellatrix death

    Type: Dark charm
    Description: Like the Killing curse, it kills (or freezes) the victim. It turns the body grey/blue (or paler) while it turns to stone and then another twin spell can blast the body into pieces.
    Notes: This may be Hardening Charm or Freezing Charm, although the latter is shown to be blue in 1992.

Morsmordre
Morsmordre

Morsmordre over the Quidditch World Cup

    Type: Dark charm
    Pronunciation: morz-MOR-druh
    Description: Conjures the Dark Mark, which is the sign of the Death Eaters.[29]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Bartemius Crouch Junior in 1994.[29] Also seen in 1997 over Hogwarts castle to lure Albus Dumbledore to his death.[60] It was apparently invented by Lord Voldemort.
    Etymology: Latin mors, "death", and mordere, meaning "to bite" (or its French derivative mordre); this would appear to be associated with the name of Lord Voldemort's followers, the Death Eaters. The English murder might also contribute.
    Notes: A possible translation might be "take a bite out of death", a fitting phrase for Death Eaters.

Mucus ad Nauseam (Curse of the Bogies)
Mucus

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: MYOO-kus ahd NAW-zee-um
    Description: Gives the victim a nasty cold and an extremely runny nose that can cause the victim to collapse if it is not treated. The cold is accompanied with constant sneezing.
    Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned by Professor Quirrell to his first-year class.[7]

Muffliato (Muffliato Charm)
Muffliato

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: muf-lee-AH-to
    Description: Prevents others from hearing nearby conversations by filling peoples' ears with an unidentifiable buzzing.
    Seen/Mentioned: It was used in 1996 by Harry Potter and Ron Weasley on various teachers and people such as Madam Pomfrey. It was created by Severus Snape. As pointed out by Hermione, it is probably not Ministry of Magic approved. It was also used in 1997 by Hermione Granger in protection of the camp-site where Harry and she stayed in hiding.
    Etymology: English muffle, "to quiet", with a pseudo-Latin or pseudo-Italian ending.

Multicorfors (Multicorfors Spell)
Multicorfors

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: mull-tee-COR-fors
    Description: Multicorfors is a charm used to change the colour and style of one's clothing.[10]

Mutatio Skullus

    Type: Dark charm
    Pronunciation: myoo-TAY-toh SKULL-us
    Description: Mutates the victim's head, causing them to grows extra heads.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Ancient Egyptian wizards, as noted by Ron Weasley in 1993.

N
Nox (Wand-Extinguishing Charm)
SnapeNox

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: NOCKSS
    Description: Extinguishes wandlight. It the counter-charm for the Wand-Lighting Charm, Lumos.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1994, Harry Potter and Hermione Granger used this spell to turn off their wand-lights in the Shrieking Shack. Used in 1998 when Harry was in the passage beneath the Whomping Willow which leads to the Shrieking Shack. Lumos's power can be arranged so that a powerful wizard can make the charm illuminate intensely or to the wizards liking by loudness of incantation. For example "LUMOS!!!" would be powerful and "lumos" would be weaker. Also used by Harry Potter in 1998 to turn off the light so he could hide the Marauder's Map from Severus Snape.
    Etymology: Latin nox, meaning "night".

Nebulus
Nebulus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: NEH-bu-lus
    Description: Creates fog from the tip of the wand.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1927, Albus Dumbledore used this spell to conjure a fog in London to provide concealment for his meeting with Newton Scamander.
    Notes: This may be the incantation for the Ministry of Magic Fog.

O
Oculus Reparo
Oculus Reparo GIF

    Type: Charm
    Description: Mends eyeglasses.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione in 1991 and 1992 to fix Harry's glasses.
    Notes: This spell is a variation of Reparo.

(Obliteration Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Removes footprints.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione in 1995 to remove the footprints that she, Harry, and Ron left in the snow while walking to Hagrid's Hut. Also used in 1997 by Hermione to remove the footprints she and Harry left behind them in the snow as they journeyed through Godric's Hollow.
    Notes: The Obliteration Charm is only known to remove footprints. There is no explanation as to what effect it can have on other things. It could possibly destroy things, according to its name.

Obliviate (Memory Charm)
Obliviate backfire

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: oh-BLI-vee-ate
    Description: Erases specific memories.
    Seen/Mentioned: First seen in 1993 when used by Gilderoy Lockhart on Harry and Ron; the spell backfired due to a faulty wand, costing Lockhart most of his own memory. Also, Hermione Granger used this spell to wipe her parents memories in 1997. Again, it was used in 1997 when Hermione Granger used the spell on 2 Death Eaters who had followed Harry, Ron, and Hermione after their escape from Bill Weasley's and Fleur Delacour's wedding.
    Etymology: Latin oblivisci, "forget". The spell is most often used against Muggles who have seen something of the Wizarding world.
    Notes: Invented by Mnemone Radford, who became the Ministry's first Obliviator. The Ministry of Magic employees assigned to modifying the memories of Muggles are called Obliviators. The charm can be broken by powerful magic, or extreme duress, as Lord Voldemort was able to torture Bertha Jorkins into remembering details that Barty Crouch Snr had forced her to forget using the charm. In this case, it was also shown that if the charm is too powerful, it can cause the target to develop a bad memory. This spell differs from the False memory charm.

Obscuro

    Type: Conjuration
    Pronunciation: ob-SKYUR-oh
    Description: Blindfolds the target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger in 1997 to obstruct the portrait of Phineas Nigellus's view of their location.
    Notes: This spell might only affect characters in paintings; there are no other references to this spell.
    Etymology: English word obscure, meaning "unclear" or "unnoticeable".

Oppugno (Oppugno Jinx)
Undesirable Number One posters

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: oh-PUG-noh
    Description: Causes targeted objects to attack a victim. It is particularly effective in conjunction with the Bird-Conjuring Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger in 1996 to attack Ron Weasley with a summoned flock of canaries during an argument.
    Etymology: Latin oppugno, "I attack".

Orbis
Orbis

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: OR-biss
    Description: Sucks the target into the ground.
    Etymology: Orbis is Latin for 'circle', which reflects the spell's physical appearance.

Orchideous
Orchideous

    Type: Conjuration
    Pronunciation: or-KID-ee-us
    Description: Conjures a bouquet of flowers.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used in 1994 by Mr Ollivander to test Fleur Delacour's wand. Probably used non-verbally by Tom Riddle to present flowers to Mrs Smith.
    Etymology: English orchid and Latin suffix -eous, "of or bearing (the root word)".
    Notes: A variation of this spell may have been used when Hermione Granger conjured a Christmas wreath to place on James and Lily Potter's graves in 1997.

Oscausi
Oscausi

    Type: Dark charm
    Pronunciation: os-SCOW-zee
    Description: Seal someone's mouth shut, making it appear it was never there.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Leta Lestrange on a girl from Gryffindor when they were both in their third year at Hogwarts. The Gryffindor girl was speaking ill of Lestrange behind her back until Lestrange emerged from hiding nearby, and muted the Gryffindor girl with this spell.
    Etymology: Possibly derived as a portmanteau of os, Latin for "mouth", and clausi (a conjugated form of claudo), Latin for "I shut". It may additionally be a pun or wordplay on scusi, the Italian interjection for "excuse me".

P
Pack

    Type: Charm
    Description: Packs luggage.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used in 1994 by Remus Lupin in his office, and in 1995 by Nymphadora Tonks, once verbally and again non-verbally.

(Pain extraction spell)

    Type: Unknown
    Description: Invented by Isidora Morganach, this ancient magic spell could extract the feeling of pain from an individual.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Isidora Morganach throughout the 15th–16th century.

Papyrus Reparo
Papyrus Reparo

    Type: Charm
    Description: Mends torn pieces of paper.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was used by Newton Scamander in 1927 to restore a torn postcard from Porpentina Goldstein addressed to Queenie Goldstein.
    Notes: This spell is a variation of Reparo.

(Patented Daydream Charm)
DaydreamCharms

    Type: Charm
    Description: Gives the spell caster a highly-realistic 30-minute daydream. Side effects include mild drooling and a vacant expression.
    Seen/Mentioned: These were invented by Fred and George Weasley and sold in 1996 at their joke shop, presumably in the form of some kind of physical object, similar to Skiving Snackboxes.

Partis Temporus
Partis Temporus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: PAR-tis temp-OAR-us
    Description: Creates a temporary gap in the target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Albus Dumbledore in the Crystal Cave in 1997. He uses it so that he and Harry can pass through the ring of fire used to ward off the Inferi.
    Etymology: Partis is a plural form of the French verb partir, which means "to separate," "to go away," "to leave," or "to depart." Temporis is Latin for "time."

(Pepper Breath)

    Type: Hex
    Description: Gives the victim fiery hot breath.
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry Potter learned of this hex from Basic Hexes for the Busy and Vexed while researching spells to use during the Triwizard Tournament and decided not to use it against the dragon he would face in the First Task.

Periculum
GOF Harry Periculum third task

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: pur-ICK-you-lum
    Description: Produces a burst of red sparks.
    Seen/Mentioned:
    Etymology: Periculum is Latin for "danger".

(Permanent Sticking Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Sticks objects permanently in place.
    Seen/Mentioned: First mentioned in 1995, when Sirius Black suspected that his mother's painting was fixed to the wall with such a Charm. It is implied that the portrait in the Muggle Prime Minister's office also has such a charm on it.
    Notes: It is never said whether the charm prevents the object from being removed by cutting away the section of wall. The incantation could be gluten sempra, meaning glue forever, or adher sempra, which means stick forever.

Peskipiksi Pesternomi
Peskipiksi-pesternomi 786x442

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: PES-key PIX-ee PES-ter NO-mee
    Description: The one time it was used, it had absolutely no effect.[51]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Lockhart to attempt to remove Cornish Pixies.[51]
    Suggested Etymology: English pesky meaning "annoying", English pixie meaning "a supernatural being", English pester meaning "to annoy", English no for negative and English me for the first person pronoun.
    Notes: It is not known if the spell works or not. It also suspiciously sounds like "Pesky pixie pester no me."

Petrificus Totalus (Full Body-Bind Curse)
PetrificusTotalus PS

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: pe-TRI-fi-cus to-TAH-lus
    Description: Used to temporarily bind the victim's body in a position much like that of a soldier at attention; the victim will usually fall to the ground.[21]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used in 1991 by Hermione, who was trying to prevent Neville from stopping her, Ron, and Harry from leaving the common room to hunt for the Philosopher's Stone,[21] in the Hall of Prophecy during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries to petrify Antonin Dolohov who was pursuing him and his friends, and used on Harry by Draco Malfoy in the Hogwarts Express in 1996.[17]
    Etymology: Latin petra, meaning "stone", and fieri (past participle factus), meaning "to become"; totalus comes from Latin "totus", meaning "complete".
    Note: Albus Dumbledore used this spell on Harry Potter before the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.[60]

Piertotum Locomotor
Piertotum Locomotor

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: peer-TOH-tuhm loh-kuh-MOH-tor
    Description: Brings animates inanimate targets.[61]
    Seen/Mentioned: In the Battle of Hogwarts, Professor McGonagall used this spell to animate the suits of armour and statues within Hogwarts, to defend the castle.[61] Also used by Albus Dumbledore to enchant the statues on the fountain in the entrance to the Ministry of Magic Department.[6]
    Etymology: Pier means "friend" or "colleague", totum refers to "the whole" or "total", and locomotor means "the movement of".

Piscifors
Piscifors

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: PIS-ee-fors
    Description: Transforms things into fish.

(Placement Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Magically places an object in or on a specific location. Placement Charms can be used to place a bridle on a Kelpie to render it harmless and docile.

Point Me (Four-Point Spell)
FourPointSpell

    Type: Spell
    Description: Makes the caster's wand point due north.
    Seen/Mentioned: Hermione Granger taught it to Harry Potter, who used it during the Triwizard Tournament, particularly to navigate the hedge maze during the Third Task.
    Note: This spell may be an invention of Hermione Granger. Given that the incantation is English (whereas almost all other mentioned spells have incantations based on Latin or other old languages) and that none of the other champions of the Tournament seem to use the spell, it seems likely that Hermione invented the spell.

Portus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: POR-tus
    Description: Turns an object into a portkey.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Albus Dumbledore in 1996.
    Etymology: Latin porta, meaning "gate", or portare, meaning "to carry" (as in to carry the caster or target to another location). There is a Latin word portus, meaning "harbour", but it is inappropriate in this context.
    Notes: Portkeys were first seen in 1994 as a means for Harry, Hermione, and the Weasleys to go to the Quidditch World Cup. However, the spell used in its creation was not seen until 1995.

Prior Incantato (Reverse Spell)
Priori Incantatem Pottermore

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: pri-OR in-can-TAH-toh
    Description: Forces a wand to show an "echo" of the last spell it performed.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Amos Diggory in 1994 to discover the last spell cast by Harry's wand after it was found in the hands of Winky, a house-elf.
    Etymology: Latin prior, "previous", and incantare, "to speak a spell" (past participle incantatum).
    Notes: Can manifest in the form of the Reverse Spell effect, or Priori Incantatem, when wands with the same core attempt to do battle.
    Notes (2): Apparently the spell is cumulative, with the user able to go further back and see spells that the wand performed after the latest spell. Harry suggests this in 1997. Hermione does not contradict his claim, suggesting this is true.

(Protean Charm)
EnchantedCoin

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes copies of an object to be remotely affected by changes made to the original.
    Seen/Mentioned: First used in 1995. Hermione Granger put the charm on a number of fake Galleons. Instead of the serial number around the edge of the coin, the time and date of the next meeting of Dumbledore's Army appeared. It is possible that this charm is used on the Death Eaters' Dark Marks.
    Etymology: The English word Protean derives from Proteus, a god in Greek Mythology. Proteus was a shape-shifter, able to take many forms. As a result, the word Protean has come to refer to versatility, flexibility, or an ability to assume many forms. "Protean" is also similar to "protein", derived from the same root, meaning a variable, flexible substance which forms strong bonds between its constituent parts.
    Notes: On Hermione's fake galleons, when the date changes, the coin becomes hot, alerting the owner to look at the coin. This may not be a feature of the original charm. It may be a Flagrante Curse, when the Protean Charm changes the coin the curse may activate. It would seem from this that you can decide what the effects on the charmed objects are. Possibly by saying something along the lines of "Protean flagrante." although this is just speculation.
    Notes (2): The Protean Charm is a N.E.W.T. standard charm, according to Terry Boot, who is incredulous that Hermione can perform the spell even though she is only in her fifth year (N.E.W.T.s are taken in the seventh year at Hogwarts).
Pullus

    Type: Jinx, Transfiguration
    Description: Transforms things into chickens.

Protego (Shield Charm)
DH2 Kingsley Shacklebolt Protego

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: pro-TAY-goh
    Description: Invisible shield that reflects spells and blocks physical entities.
    Seen/Mentioned: First seen in 1995, in which Harry is taught this spell by Hermione in preparation for the third task in the Triwizard Tournament. Albus Dumbledore uses a similar spell which reverses the construction of glass back into sand when Voldemort sent shards of glass to try to stab Dumbledore. Fred and George Weasley enchanted hats they dubbed "shield hats" with this spell in 1997.
    Etymology: Latin protego, "I cover" or "I protect".
    Notes: The original description of this spell states that it rebounds minor jinxes to the caster. However, it is shown that it can also be used to reflect or lessen the effects of more powerful spells, depending on the skill of the caster. In 1998, it is also shown to be able to create a sort of force-field across an area, and is used frequently to prevent two participants in an argument from reaching each other.

Protego Diabolica
COG Gellert Protego Diabolica

    Type: Dark Arts
    Pronunciation: pro-TAY-goh dia-BOHL-i-cub
    Description: Conjures a protective ring of black fire around the caster that only affects their enemies.

Protego horribilis
ProtegoHorribilis

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: pro-TAY-goh horr-uh-BIHL-ihs
    Description: A powerful shield charm against dark magic.
    Seen/Mentioned: Cast by Professor Flitwick in an attempt to strengthen the castle's defences in the Battle of Hogwarts.
    Etymology: Latin Protego, "I protect", and Horribilis, "horrible , frightful, dreadful".

Protego Maxima

    Pronunciation: pro-TAY-goh MAX-ee-Ma
    TwoProtego
    Type: Charm
    Description: A powerful shield charm against dark magic. A stronger and bigger version of Protego, especially when combined with other wizards casting it at the same time. Was so powerful that it could also disintegrate people that came too close and tried to enter it.
    Seen/Mentioned: Cast by Professor Flitwick, Professor McGonagall, Professor Slughorn and Mrs Weasley in an attempt to strengthen the castle's defences in the Battle of Hogwarts.
    Etymology: Latin Protego, "I protect"

Protego totalum
Hermione in Mafalda's clothing

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: pro-TAY-goh toh-TAH-lum
    Description: Protects an area for an extended period of time.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1997, this was one of the spells used by Hermione Granger and Harry Potter to protect their camp site from unwanted visitors.
    Etymology: Latin protego meaning "to protect" and Latin totus meaning "as a whole".[62]

(Purple Firecrackers)
Purple Firecrackers

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes purple firecrackers to shoot out from the tip of one's wand.
    Seen/Mentioned: On 31 October 1991, Albus Dumbledore used this spell to get the attention of panicking diners in the Great Hall when a troll was loose in the castle.

(Pus-squirting spell)

    Type: Dark charm
    Description: Causes yellowish goo to squirt from one's nose.
    Seen/Mentioned: Morfin Gaunt used this spell on Bob Ogden.

(pwd): Gets your current position (path) so you can apparate back to it without a lot of middle steps
(Pwd): Gets your current position (path) so you can apparate back to it without a lot of middle steps

Q
Quietus (Quietening Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: KWIY-uh-tus
    Description: Makes a target sound quieter. It is the counter-charm to the Amplifying Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used in 1994 by Ludo Bagman.
    Etymology: Latin quietus, "calm" or "quiet".

R
Redactum Skullus (Head Shrink Spell)
Redactum Skullus

    Type: Dark charm
    Pronunciation: reh-DAK-tum SKULL-us
    Description: Shrinks the head of the target. It is the counter-spell to Engorgio Skullus.

Reducio (Shrinking Charm)
HM y2 Reducio

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: re-DOO-see-oh
    Description: Makes an object shrink in size. Its counter-charm is the Engorgement Charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1997, Harry Potter, after checking his Blackthorn wand on the Bluebell Flames with Engorgio, casts this spell to shorten the formerly enlarged flames.
    Etymology: English reduce, "to shrink". (Latin has a verb reducere, present tense reduco. This is the source of the English "reduce", but has a different meaning.) Also in Italian Riduco first person present tense of Ridurre, same root of Latin Reducere.
    Notes: Whether Reducio could also be used by itself rather than countering Engorgio is unknown. If it could, it would shrink normal sized items into miniature versions of themselves. References in 1992 by Arthur Weasley to "shrinking door keys" make this seem likely.

Reducto (Reductor Curse)
OOTP DA Ginny Reducto

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: re-DUK-toh
    Description: Breaks objects. In stronger usages, disintegrates them.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1995, Harry used it on one of the hedges of the Triwizard maze and ends up burning a small hole in it; in 1995, Gryffindors in Harry Potter's year referenced Parvati Patil as being able to reduce a table full of Dark Detectors to ashes, and Harry and his friends later used the spell in the Department of Mysteries against the Death Eaters, shattering many Prophecy Orbs in the process; in 1997, a member of the Order of the Phoenix attempted to use this spell to break down a door which Death Eaters had blocked when the Death Eaters had cornered Dumbledore in the Lightning Struck Tower.
    Etymology: English reduce, "to bring down;destroy".

(Refilling Charm)
Refilling Charm

    Type: Charm
    Description: Refills whatever the caster points at with the drink originally in the container.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used in 1996, when Harry noticed that Hagrid and Slughorn were running out of wine.

Reparifors
Reparifors

    Type: Healing Spell
    Pronunciation: re-PAR-i-fors
    Description: Reverts minor magically-induced ailments, such as paralysis and poisoning.

Reverte
Reverte

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ree-VUHR-tay
    Description: Returns objects to their original positions or states.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1927, Leta Lestrange used this spell on the record towers in the French Ministry of Magic Records Room at the French Ministry of Magic Headquarters, in an attempt to flee from pursuing Matagots. This sent all the record towers - previously summoned by Lestrange - flying backwards and spinning back into their original positions in the ground.
    Etymology: Reverte is derived from Latin for "you shall return", being a second-person imperative form (singular, present, active) of the verb reverto ("I return, or turn back").

Relashio (Revulsion Jinx)
Relashio being used against Grindylows

    Type: Jinx
    Pronunciation: ruh-LASH-ee-oh
    Description: Forces the target to release its grip on whatever it is holding.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry Potter against Grindylows in the second task of the Triwizard Tournament. Also used in 1997 and 1998, when Hermione used this spell to free Mary Cattermole from the chained chair and to free the Ukrainian Ironbelly on which they were to get out from Gringotts.
    Etymology: Probably from the French verb relâcher ="to release, to set free", or Italian rilascio (pronounced the same way as the spell)= "I release".

Rennervate (Reviving Spell)
Revive Charm WU

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: RENN-a-vate
    Description: Awakens an unconscious victim. It is consequently the counter-charm to the Stunning Spell.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1994, Amos Diggory used it to wake up Winky and Albus Dumbledore used it to wake up Viktor Krum. Harry Potter later used it to try and reawaken a cursed Dumbledore in the seaside cave.
    Etymology: Rennervate means "to energise.

Reparifarge
Reparifarge

    Type: Untransfiguration
    Pronunciation: reh-PAR-i-farj
    Description: Used to reverse incomplete transformations.
    Seen/Mentioned: Found in A Beginner's Guide to Transfiguration.

Reparo (Mending Charm)
Reparo

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: reh-PAH-roh
    Description: Seamlessly repairs broken objects.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Albus Dumbledore and Horace Slughorn to repair damage the latter had done to a Muggle home in Budleigh Babberton where he had been hiding. It was also used by Harry Potter to repair his wand with the Elder Wand
    Etymology: Latin reparo meaning "to renew" or "repair".[62]
    Notes: Reparo has been seen to repair non-magical items, however it seems to have an inability at repairing magical items or items that have magic placed upon them. An example is Harry's Nimbus 2000 shown in 1993 which he is told is irreparable after it is destroyed by the Whomping Willow. Wands are also irreparable, as shown in 1992 when Ron's wand snapped after he and Harry crashed onto the Hogwarts grounds. Despite his use of Spellotape, Ron's wand malfunctioned throughout the year. Another example is in 1997 when Hermione tried to fix Harry's broken wand, which was snapped by her errant Blasting Curse. However, Harry repaired his wand with the Elder Wand. Since the Elder Wand is the most powerful wand in creation, it makes sense that it would produce the most powerful Mending Charm.

Repello Muggletum (Muggle-Repelling Charm)
Hermione in Mafalda's clothing

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ruh-PEL-oh MUH-guhl-tuhm
    Description: Keeps Muggles away from wizarding places by causing them to remember important meetings they missed and to cause the Muggles in question to forget what they were doing.
    Seen/Mentioned: It was used to keep Muggles away from the Quidditch World Cup. Hogwarts was also said to be guarded by the Muggle-Repelling Charm. It was also used by Harry and Hermione on numerous occasions, among many other spells, to protect and hide their camp site in 1997.

Repello Inimicum
DesintegrateSnatcher

Snatchers being desintegrated by the power of this spell combined with other protections

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: re-PEH-lloh ee-nee-MEE-cum
    Description: Disintegrates the persons entering this charm.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was used by professors Filius Flitwick and Horace Slughorn along with Order of the Phoenix member Molly Weasley to protect Hogwarts Castle in 1998.
    Etymology: Latin "Repello", meaning "Push Back" and "inimicum", the accusative singular form of "inimīcus" meaning "foe" or "enemy".

Revelio (Revelio Charm)
Revelio

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: reh-VEL-ee-oh
    Description: Reveals secrets about a person or object.

Rictusempra (Tickling Charm)
Rictusempra

Harry Potter in the Duelling Club using Rictusempra

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ric-tuhs-SEM-pra
    Description: Tickles the target until they become weak with laughter.[40]
    Seen/Mentioned: By Harry Potter on Draco Malfoy in 1992, when they fought in the Duelling Club.[40]
    Etymology: Possibly the sum of two words; The Latin rictus, meaning "The expanse of an open mouth", and semper, meaning "Always". Rictus is generally used as an expression of terror, however, "always an open mouth" would, in most cases, correspond to the act of laughing uncontrollably.

Riddikulus (Boggart Banishing Spell)
Neville Riddikulus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: rih-dih-KUL-lus
    Description: A spell used when fighting a Boggart, "Riddikulus" forces the Boggart to take the appearance of an object the caster is focusing on. Best results can be achieved if the caster is focusing on something humorous, with the desire that laughter will weaken the Boggart.[63]
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught by Remus Lupin during third year Defence Against the Dark Arts, where his students had the opportunity to practise the spell on an actual Boggart.[63]
    Etymology: Latin word ridiculus, "laughable" (but perhaps "absurd" or "silly" in this context).
    Notes: The effect of the spell seems to rely primarily on the state of mind of the caster. It doesn't actually change the shape of a boggart into something humorous, but rather whatever the caster is concentrating on at the moment of the casting, as when Neville was thinking of his grandmother's dress. Presumably, Mrs Weasley couldn't take her mind off of her fears for her family, so the Boggart was changed into other members of the family rather than something humorous.

(rm): Remove a character (or a directory/file/program). For example `rm ./monster.txt` (see avada kadavra)
(Rm): Remove a character (or a directory/file/program). For example `rm ./monster.txt` (see avada kadavra)

(Rose Growth)
Rose Growth

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Causes rosebushes grow at an unusually fast pace.
    Notes: This spell may be related to Herbivicus.

(rotate): Rotates a message by a single character at a time until its meaning becomes clear
(Rotate): Rotates a message by a single character at a time until its meaning becomes clear

(Rowboat spell)
Hagrid and Harry on the rowboat

    Type: Charm
    Description: Makes boats row themselves.
    Seen/mentioned: Hagrid used the spell on the row-boats at Hogwarts, to transport the First years from Hogsmeade station to the Boathouse. It may also have been the spell that he used to propel the row-boat that he used to take Harry from the Hut-on-the-Rock back to the mainland in 1991.

S
Salvio hexia
SalvioHexia

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: SAL-vee-oh HECKS-ee-ah
    Description: Protects against hexes.
    Etymology: Possibly derived from the Latin "salveo," meaning "to be in good health," and used as a form of greeting and farewell, and a pseudo-Latin derivative of the English word "hex"—hence, "Farewell, hexes!"
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry and Hermione cast this spell to strengthen their camp-site's defences against intruders in 1997.
    Notes: Possibly the Hex Deflection spells the fake Moody mentioned in 1994.

(Sardine Hex)

    Type: Dark charm
    Description: Makes the victim sneeze out sardines.
    Seen/Mentioned: Rubeus Hagrid once had this spell used on him.

(Sauce-making spell)

    Type: Conjuration
    Description: Conjures a creamy sauce from the tip of the wand.
    Seen/Mentioned: Molly Weasley used this spell in August of 1994 to pour some sauce in a pot to make dinner for her family, Harry Potter and Hermione Granger.
    Notes: According to Gamp's Law of Elemental Transfiguration, food can't be conjured. This implies that sauce is not considered "good food," as things suitable for consumption may created with the spell, such as birds.

(say): Have the computer magically say a phrase. For example `say "surprise I can talk"`
(Say): Have the computer magically say a phrase. For example `say "surprise I can talk"`

Scourgify (Scouring Charm)
HM y4 Scourgify

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: SKUR-ji-fy
    Description: Cleans objects
    Seen/Mentioned: First used by Nymphadora Tonks to clean Hedwig's cage in 1995. Later, Ginny Weasley performed the spell to clean up the Stinksap on the Hogwarts Express, also used by James Potter on Severus Snape after he shouted various curses and obscenities at him.
    Etymology: Perhaps related to English scour, "clean". -ify is a common English suffix meaning "to make ...". Therefore scourgify could mean "to make clean".

(Sealant Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Magically seals envelopes.
    Seen/Mentioned: All applicants for wand permits in the United States were required by the Magical Congress of the United States of America to close the envelope in which they sent their applications back to the Wand Permit Office with this spell.
    Notes: This may be the parchment-sealing spell that Dolores Umbridge used in 1995.

(Sea urchin jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: This spell begins to transform the victim into a sea urchin.
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was used on 2 May, 1998, during the Battle of Hogwarts, by Percy Weasley on an Imperiused Pius Thicknesse.[31]

Sectumsempra
Sectumempra Curse

    Type: Curse
    Pronunciation: sec-tum-SEMP-rah
    Description: Lacerates the target, as if they have been "slashed by a sword." Subsequently, the target can easily bleed to death from the wounds.[58] This curse was invented by Severus Snape, to be used against his personal enemies.[5]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Harry in 1997 against Draco Malfoy,[58] and then later against both the Inferi in Lord Voldemort's Horcrux cave,[4] and Snape used it against George Weasley (was unintentional; aimed for a Death Eater that tried to curse Lupin) in the Order's flight from Privet Drive. Harry learned it in Snape's old Potions textbook. In 1998, the spell is said to be Severus Snape's "signature" spell.
    Etymology: Latin sectum, "cut", and semper, "always".
    Notes: The spell can apparently be used against any object, but was not effective when used against Inferi because they could not feel pain or bleed. The movement of the wand seems to affect how someone is cut, suggested by the erratic patterns of slashes left on Draco Malfoy's face and chest, produced by Harry Potter's wild wand-swings while using the spell against Draco. Wounds caused by this spell can be healed as proved by Severus Snape who after Harry hit Draco Malfoy with this spell he healed Draco's wounds and told him to go and get treated with dittany at once so that he would even avoid any sign of any wound. However it seems that it depends on the caster's magical abilities because Molly Weasley could not heal and restore George Weasley's ear that was cursed off by this spell.

(Shield penetration spell)
Shield Penetration

    Type: Spell
    Pronunciation: unknown
    Description: Annihilates magical enchantments and shields.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Voldemort to break the enchantments placed around Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1998 by Filius Flitwick, Minerva McGonagall, and Molly Weasley.

(Shooting Spell)

    Type: Spell
    Description: Used to shoot objects
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell was used by Harry Potter and Ronald Weasley in 1997 on their Horcrux hunt in an attempt to catch a rabbit for food.

(Smashing spell)
Bellaspell

    Type: Spell
    Description: Produces explosions

Serpensortia (Snake Summons Spell)
Serpensortia

The snake created by Draco Malfoy (Serpensortia)

    Type: Conjuration
    Pronunciation: ser-pen-SOR-shah, SER-pehn-SOR-tee-ah
    Description: Conjures a serpent from the caster's wand.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Draco Malfoy while duelling Harry Potter in 1992.
    Etymology: Latin serpens meaning "a snake" and Latin ortis meaning "source".[62]

Silencio (Silencing Charm)
Silencio

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: sih-LEN-see-oh
    Description: Makes something silent.
    Seen/Mentioned: First used by Hermione in 1996 to silence a frog and a raven in Charms class, then later used to silence a Death Eater that was trying to tell his comrades where they were.
    Etymology: Probably Latin silentium, "silence". Also, silencio and silêncio (which is closer to the English pronunciation) mean "silence" in Spanish and Portuguese, respectively.

Skurge (Skurge Charm)
Skurge

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: SKURJ
    Description: Cleans up ectoplasm and frightens ghosts and other spirits.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in second year Charms class.

(Slippery Jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Makes an object slippery and difficult to hold.
    Seen/Mentioned:

(sl): Take the train to hogwarts!
(Sl): Take the train to hogwarts!

Slugulus Eructo (Slug-vomiting Charm)
Ron vomiting slugs

    Type: Curse
    Description: Forces the victim to burp up slimy slugs.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1992, Ronald Weasley attempted to curse Draco Malfoy with this spell after the latter insulted Hermione Granger, but was unsuccessful as his wand at the time was broken, and thus his curse backfired on himself.[64]

(Sonorous Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: This charm emits a magnified roar from the tip of the wand. This noise disrupts all in its path, and can even be used to harm opponents.
    Notes: Not to be confused with the Amplifying Charm, Sonorus.

Sonorus (Amplifying Charm)
Fudgeworldcup

Fudge commentating the 1994 Quidditch World Cup. (Sonorus)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: soh-NOHR-uhs
    Description: Makes the target sound louder. The counter-charm is the Quietening Charm, Quietus.
    Seen/Mentioned: By Ludo Bagman in 1994 at the beginning of the Quidditch World Cup and by Albus Dumbledore several times in the Triwizard Championship. Used by Lord Voldemort several times during the Battle of Hogwarts in 1998.
    Etymology: Latin sonorus, "loud; noisy".

Specialis Revelio

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: spe-see-AL-is reh-VEL-ee-oh
    Description: Reveals spells cast on objects or potions.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Hermione Granger to find out more of Harry's Advanced Potion-Making book in 1996. Used by Ernie Macmillan to find out ingredients of a potion.
    Etymology: Latin specialis, "particular;individual" and revelare (present tense revelo), "unveil".
    Notes: In 1994, Severus Snape cast a similar spell, but with different words ("Reveal your secrets!"), on the Marauder's Map, though he may have just been saying those words as he cast the spell non-verbally.

(Sponge-Knees Curse)

    Type: Curse
    Description: Makes the target's legs spongy, making it difficult for them to walk.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used during the September 1999 riot that took place at a Puddlemere vs. Holyhead Harpies match. The Puddlemere supporters used this curse against the Holyhead Harpies supporters in retaliation to the Jelly-Brain Jinx.
    Notes: This spell is similar in effect to the Jelly-Legs Curse.

Spongify (Softening Charm)
Spongify

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: SPUN-ji-fye
    Description: Softens objects, making them rubbery and bouncy.
    Seen/Mentioned: This charm is found in The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 1.

(Squiggle Quill)
Squiggle Quill

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Transforms writing quills into worms.
    Notes: This spell may be Vermiculus.

(Stealth Sensoring Spell)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Detects those under magical disguise.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1996, Professor Umbridge cast this around her office.

Sternius
Steleus

    Type: Dark charm
    Pronunciation: STEH-lee-us, or perhaps STEH-nee-us
    Description: A spell that causes the victim to sneeze for a short period of time. This spell is used in duelling to distract the opponent.
    Etymology: Sternius derives from the Latin sternuo, meaning I sneeze.

(Stinging Jinx)
Deathly Hallows - Stinging Hex

    Type: Jinx, Hex
    Description: Stings the flesh of a target. This spell is also known as
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry Potter inadvertently used one on Severus Snape during Occlumency lessons in 1996. It was non-debilitating in that instance, but it is stronger when intentionally cast, as shown by the results of Hermione Granger's Stinging Hex used on Harry Potter in 1998 to purposefully distort Harry's appearance.
    Notes: Also known as the Stinging Hex.

(Stretching Jinx)

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Stretches the target.
    Seen/Mentioned: Molly Weasley remarked in 1996 that recent growth spurts had made her son Ron and his friend, Harry Potter, look as if this jinx had been cast upon them both.

Stupefy (Stunning Spell)
DH1 Harry as Albert Runcorn stunning Umbridge

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: STOO-puh-fye
    Description: Stuns the target, rendering them unconscious.
    Seen/Mentioned: Often; particularly by a number of wizards and witches (including Dolores Umbridge) against Minerva McGonagall in 1996. It's also taught by Harry in his D.A. meetings.
    Etymology: English stupefy, which means 'to put into a stupor', a temporary vegetative state.
    Notes: The physical manifestation of the spell is a beam of red light emanating from the caster's wand. The spell wears off after a short time, and can be countered by Rennervate. Nearly useless on magic-resistant creatures such as dragons, trolls and giants unless more than one Stupefy spell is used at the same time. The force of the spell is additive or perhaps even exponential, and it can cause severe injury if many spells are used on a target that is not normally resistant to its effects. Hagrid, as a half-giant, was impervious to this spell - or at least, a lone one.

(Supersensory Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Grants the caster to have enhanced senses, or to be able to sense things they would not normally sense.
    Seen/Mentioned: Mentioned by Ron outside of the Hogwarts Express in 2017 as a potential substitute for using mirrors while driving a Muggle auto mobile.

Surgito
Surgito

    Type: Counter-charm
    Pronunciation: SUR-jee-toh
    Description: Counter-charm that can be used to remove enchantments.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1927, Newton Scamander used Surgito to lift an enchantment that was placed on Jacob Kowalski. As a result of the spell, Kowalski awoke from the dreamlike enchanted state, and regained an awareness of reality in the present.
    Etymology: Surgito is a Latin word in the imperative form meaning "you/he/she shall arise, or get up", and is a conjugation of the verb surgo ("I arise"). The etymology is appropriate, considering that the effects of the spell on Jacob Kowalski can be likened to waking up from a confused, dreamlike state.

(Switching Spell)
Switching Spell

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Switches two targets simultaneously.
    Seen/Mentioned: Harry contemplated using this spell against his dragon in the first task of the Triwizard Tournament. He considered swapping its fangs for wine gums. Neville Longbottom misuses the spell, transplanting his ears onto a cactus.

T

(tab complete): When a command or path is started and then tab is pressed, the rest of the command/path is magically filled in
(Tab Complete): When a command or path is started and then tab is pressed, the rest of the command/path is magically filled in

(Taboo)
Xenophilius Lovegood speaking to Harry Potter DHF1

Xenophilius Lovegood triggering the Taboo on purpose

    Type: Jinx
    Description: A jinx which may be placed upon a word or a name, so that whenever that word is spoken, a magical disturbance is created which alerts the caster of the Taboo to the location of the speaker. Any protective enchantments in effect around the speaker are broken when the Tabooed word is spoken aloud.[65]
    Seen/Mentioned: This jinx was placed on the word "Voldemort"; Harry, Ron and Hermione are tracked this way to Tottenham Court Road. Ron tells the other two to stop using the word as he began to fear the name might be a curse, later discovering it to be a Taboo. Later, Harry accidentally says Voldemort's name again, resulting in the trio being caught by Death Eaters and taken to Malfoy Manor.

(Tail-growing spell)
Goshtail

    Type: Hex
    Description: Causes the victim to grow a tail.
    Seen/Mentioned: When Miranda Goshawk had her Book of Spells printed, she gave copies to her sisters that had various misprints in them; one such misprint somehow gave her sister Romilda a tail.[16] Timothy Blenkinsop was hit with this hex when he was caught in the crossfire of a Puddlemere United vs. Holyhead Harpies riot.

Tarantallegra (Dancing Feet Spell)
Tarantallegra

Chair affected by the Dancing Feet Spell

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ta-RON-ta-LEG-gra
    Description: Makes a target's legs spasm wildly out of control, making it appear as though they are dancing.[40]
    Seen/Mentioned: First used by Draco Malfoy on Harry Potter in the Duelling Club in 1992.[40]
    Etymology: Italian tarantella, a kind of fast country dance once popular in parts of Italy, supposedly from the frantic motion caused by the bite of a tarantula; and allegro, a musical term meaning "quick".

(Teacup to tortoise)
Teacup to tortoise

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Transforms a teacup into a tortoise.
    Seen/Mentioned: Seen on the Scholastic Harry Potter Official Site.
    Notes: May be related to the Teapot to tortoise spell covered in the third year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

(Teapot to tortoise)
Teapot to Tortoise

    Type: Transfiguration
    Description: Transforms a teapot into a tortoise.
    Seen/Mentioned: Third years at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry were required to cast the spell during their final exams.
    Notes: May be related to the teapot to Teacup to tortoise spell.

(Teeth-straightening spell)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Straightens crooked teeth.
    Seen/Mentioned: Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington attempted to use this spell on Lady Grieve at her request, but failed and gave her a tusk instead. He was executed the following morning. After he returned as a ghost, Nearly-Headless Nick recounted the incident in a ballad.

(Teleportation Spell)

    Type: Spell
    Description: Vanishes objects which then appear elsewhere.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1996, Albus Dumbledore used this to transport Harry Potter's school supplies, clothes, and owl to the Burrow.

Tentaclifors
Tentaclifors

Tentaclifors

    Type: Transfiguration, Jinx
    Description: Transfigures the target's head into a tentacle.

Tergeo

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: TUR-jee-oh
    Description: Siphons liquid and cleans objects.
    Seen/Mentioned: Hermione Granger used the spell in 1996 to remove blood from Harry's face. It is later used to remove spilled ink from parchment. It was also used in 1997 to clean off a handkerchief by Ron and to dust off a picture of Gellert Grindelwald in Bathilda Bagshot's house by Harry Potter.
    Etymology: Latin tergere, "wipe off; cleanse".

Titillando (Tickling Hex)
Titillando

    Type: Hex
    Pronunciation: ti-tee-LAN-do
    Description: Tickles and weakens the victim.

(Toenail-growing hex)
Toenail-growing hex

    Type: Hex
    Description: Causes the toenails to grow at an extreme and uncontrollable rate.
    Seen/Mentioned: In 1996, Harry used this to much applause from classmates, on Vincent Crabbe.[56]
    Notes: This is a hex that is probably not approved by the Ministry of Magic, as it was invented by Severus Snape.[5]

(Transmogrifian Torture)
Transmogrifian-torture

Hand movement for Transmogrifian Torture

    Type: Curse
    Description: Possibly tortures the victim to death.
    Seen/Mentioned: Gilderoy Lockhart suggested that it was this curse that "killed" Mrs Norris after she was really found petrified on a torch bracket.[66]
    Etymology: English "transmogrify", meaning "to change or alter greatly, often to grotesque effect", possibly implying that the curse changes the shape of the victim to cause pain.
    Notes: The incantation to this curse is possibly Transmogrify.

Tribuomnus (Inn Charm)
Inn Charm WU icon

    Type: Charm
    Description: Causes the quality of food within a location to be improved.

(Trip Jinx)
Trip Jinx

    Type: Jinx
    Description: Forces the target to trip and fall over.
    Seen/Mentioned: Seen in 1996. It was cast successfully on Harry Potter by Draco Malfoy, when he and other members of the Inquisitorial Squad attempted to round up members of Dumbledore's Army.

(Twitchy-Ears Hex)

    Type: Hex
    Description: Causes the victim's ears to twitch.
    Seen/Mentioned: Miranda Goshawk recommended this hex to be cast on somebody practising the Shield Charm.
    Notes: . During the fourth year Hex-deflection test for Defence Against the Dark Arts, Harry Potter was hexed with this spell by Bartemius Crouch Junior (then disguised as Alastor Moody).

U
(Unbreakable Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Makes objects unbreakable.
    Seen/Mentioned: Hermione Granger used the charm on a jar, in which she put Rita Skeeter in her Animagus beetle form to prevent her from transforming back into a human.

(Unbreakable Vow)
Unbreakablevow

Snape and Narcissa make the Unbreakable Vow

    Type: Spell
    Description: Causes a vow taken by a witch or wizard to be inviolable; if they should break it, the consequence is death.
    Seen/Mentioned: Snape made an Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa Malfoy at the beginning of Half-Blood Prince, vowing to help Narcissa's son Draco with a task given to him by Voldemort, and to finish the task should Draco prove incapable. Fred and George attempted to force an Unbreakable Vow upon Ron as children. According to Ron, it causes death when the vow is broken.

(Unsupported flight)
Voldemort flying without support

    Type: Spell
    Description: Allows a witch or wizard to fly through the air unaided. Technique invented by Lord Voldemort
    Seen/Mentioned: Demonstrated by Tom Riddle during the Battle of the Seven Potters, and by Severus Snape before his ousting.

V
(Vacuum cleaner spell)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Cleans objects by using the wand to suck up dust like a vacuum cleaner.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Madam Malkin in 1996.

Ventus (Windy Spell)
Ventus

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: VEN-tuss
    Description: Shoots a jet of strong spiralling wind from the tip of the wand.
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Newton Scamander to send away Stebbins on a London street, much to the bemusement of passing Muggles.
    Etymology: Ventus is a Latin word, meaning "wind".

Ventus Duo

    Type: Jinx
    Description: A stronger version of the Windy Spell
    Seen/Mentioned: In Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (video game)

Vera Verto
COS Vera Verto demo

    Type: Transfiguration
    Pronunciation: vair-uh-VAIR-toh
    Description: Turn animals to water goblets.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught by Minerva McGonagall in her Transfiguration class. Also used by Ronald Weasley unsuccessfully in one of his second year classes thanks to his damaged wand.
    Etymology: From Latin vera meaning "right" or "proper", and verto, meaning “I turn”.

Verdillious
Verdimillious

Verdillious

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: ver-DILL-ee-us
    Description: A spell used to shoot green sparks from the end of the wand.

Verdimillious (Verdimillious Charm)

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: vur-duh-MILL-ee-us
    Description: Produces a jet of green sparks that can be used in duelling, or to reveal things hidden by dark magic.
    Seen/Mentioned: Taught in first year Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher's office class.
    Notes: This spell is almost certainly the incantation for Green Sparks.

Verdimillious Duo
Verdimillious Duo

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: VERD-dee-MILL-lee-us
    Description: A more powerful version of Verdimillious.
    Seen/Mentioned: Learned in first year Defence Against the Dark Arts.

Vermiculus
Vermiculus

    Type: Transfiguration, Jinx
    Pronunciation: vur-MICK-yoo-luhs
    Description: Transforms things into worms.
    Seen/Mentioned:
    Notes: This spell may have some connection with Squiggle Quill.

Vermillious (Red Sparks)
Vermillious

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: vur-MILL-ee-us
    Description: Jet of red sparks that can be used to signal an emergency or as a minor duelling spell.

(Victor Rookwood's curse)

    Type: Curse
    Description: Causes the victim considerable pain and illness which lasts for many years.
    Seen/Mentioned: Victor Rookwood used this curse on Anne Sallow in the 1880s.

Vipera Evanesca (Snake-Vanishing Spell)
Vipera Evanesca

Snape casting Vipera Evanesca to vanish the serpent cast upon by Draco

    Type: Vanishment
    Pronunciation: vee-PAIR-uh eh-vuh-NES-kuh
    Description: Vanishes snakes. Subsequently, it is the counter-spell for the Snake Summons Spell.
    Seen/Mentioned: Severus Snape cast this spell in 1992 at the Duelling Club to vanish a snake that Draco Malfoy had conjured while duelling Harry Potter.[40] Albus Dumbledore also used this spell to vanish Voldemort's snake during their Duel in the Ministry Atrium.[6]
    Etymology: Vipera is a genus of venomous vipers, a type of snake. Evanesca likely shares its origin with Evanesco, which means "disappear" in Latin.

Vulnera Sanentur
Healing spell

Snape using Vulnera Sanentur to cure Draco Malfoy's wounds

    Type: Healing Spell
    Pronunciation: VUL-ner-ah sah-NEN-tour
    Description: Healing spell that slows blood flow, clears residue, and knits wounds. It is the counter-curse to Sectumsempra.[58]
    Seen/Mentioned: Used by Severus Snape to heal the wounds of Draco Malfoy caused by the Sectumsempra curse cast by Harry Potter in 1997.[58]
    Etymology: Vulnera Sanentur derives from the Latin vulnus, "wound,"[67] and sanare, "to heal"; it is translated "may the wounds be healed."[68]

W
Waddiwasi

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: wah-deh-WAH-see
    Description: Used to shoot small, soft masses of whatever the caster so desires at the target[63]
    Seen/Mentioned: Cast by Remus Lupin in 1993, on Peeves the Poltergeist, sending a wad of chewing gum up his nose.[63]
    Etymology: "Waddiwasi" comes from two words. "Vadd" and "vas-y". "Vadd" is a Swedish word that can mean "wadding" and "vas-y" is French term that means "go ahead" or "Come on!" Together, they can roughly mean "The wad goes ahead."
    Notes: This spell may be related to the Oppugno Jinx.

(Washing up spell)
Washing up spell

    Type: Charm
    Description: Enchanted dirty dishes to wash themselves.
    Seen/Mentioned: It was usednon-verbally by Molly Weasley after preparing breakfast for Harry Potter upon his arrival to The Burrow on 4 August, 1992.

Wingardium Leviosa (Levitation Charm)
PS Wingardium Leviosa feather

    Type: Charm
    Pronunciation: win-GAR-dee-um lev-ee-OH-sa
    Description: Makes objects fly, or levitate.[69]
    Seen/Mentioned: This spell is taught in early first-year charms classes; this came into good use later in that year, when Ron Weasley performed the spell to knock out a mountain troll;[69] six years later, Harry uses the charm to levitate the side-car of his godfather's flying motorbike; Ron used it again this year to make a twig poke a tree.
    Etymology: "Wingardium" almost certainly contains English wing, meaning "fly"[70], and Latin arduus, meaning "high"[71]. "Leviosa" probably originates from Latin levis, meaning "light".

(White sparks)

    Type: Charm
    Description: Jet of white sparks. It can be used offensively as a minor duelling spell.
    Seen/Mentioned: Following the American National Quidditch team's win at the semi-finals of the 2014 Quidditch World Cup against Liechtenstein, red, white and blue sparks filled the air so thickly it was difficult to see or breathe.
    Notes: The incantation to this spell is almost certainly Baubillious.f
